####2011 November 29####Fight for political centre heats up ahead of 2012 vote####Hervé Morin (pictured right), the leader of France's New Centre party and a former ally of President Nicolas Sarkozy, has become the latest candidate to vie for the middle ground in next year's presidential election.Centrist politician Herve Morin has officially added his name to a fast-growing list of presidential hopefuls who will run in France’s 2012 election. The fifty-year-old candidate is part of a handful of established figures elbowing each other for recognition in France’s political middle ground, and threatening to siphon crucial votes away from the two leading candidates. A former defence minister under French President Nicolas Sarkozy, Morin made his announcement in front of supporters and the press at a rally in the north-west department of Normandy on November 27. “Some will argue that this is a daring commitment, and it is," he declared. The move came just three days after François Bayrou, France’s leading centrist figure, joined the race. So far, opinion polls give Morin no more than 1% support among French voters. Bayrou, who came in third in the 2007 presidential vote, is poised to obtain between six and seven percent of first-round ballots next April, opinion polls indicated this month. ELECTING A FRENCH PRESIDENT France's president is elected by direct voting for a five-year term. Presidential elections have historically been organised into two rounds. If no candidate wins more than half of all ballots in the first round, voters must pick between the two top candidates in a run-off. The first round of the next presidential elections in France will be held in April 22, 2012, with a run-off on May 6 if necessary. The two candidates are also competing against Corinne Lepage, a former environment minister whose campaign proposes to gradually abandon nuclear energy and to re-launch French industry based on green technologies. Like Morin, opinion polls give Lepage around 1% support. Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande is the current frontrunner in the election, trailed by President Sarkozy, according to opinion surveys. The ‘legitimate’ centre In a letter backing Morin, parliament members from his New Centre party said they were “proud” the candidate would “carry the historic torch of the [Union for French Democracy] UDF party.” The statement was a snub to Bayrou, feeding the continuing debate over which party should be regarded as the legitimate heir of the once-powerful UDF. During the 2007 presidential poll, Morin split with then-UDF party chief Bayrou in order to endorse Sarkozy in the second-round of the election. Morin and a majority of UDF lawmakers created the New Centre party, while Bayrou founded the MoDem party. The 2012 race is the first presidential contest in which Bayrou and Morin will directly test their contested legitimacy among voters. While Morin is considered a tacit ally of the ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) party, Bayrou has insisted on his independence vis-à-vis the UMP as well as the main opposition Socialist Party. However, some of Bayrou’s opponents have labeled his neutrality a lack of commitment. Lepage, who left the MoDem party last year, called on Bayrou to take stronger positions ahead of the vote. “My choice has been made clear. I said I could not back Nicolas Sarkozy. Bayrou needs to tell voters where he stands,” Lepage told FRANCE 24 by phone on Monday. UMP on the defensive While the election campaigns by Bayrou and Lepage have so far drawn little attention from France’s mainstream parties on the right or left, Morin’s candidacy has sparked an immediate reaction from the Sarkozy camp. Just hours after the leader of the New Center party declared his intention to run, Labour Minister Xavier Bertrand, a close ally of Sarkozy, called on both Morin and Bayrou to rally behind the incumbent, who is yet to make an official re-election bid. “We need maximum unity,” Bertrand told LCI television, suggesting the ruling party expected Morin to eventually withdraw from the race. “Declaring one’s candidacy is one thing, continuing until the end is another,” he said.
####2011 December 08####Banned from voting####The right of foreigners to vote is top of the agenda for the French newspapers today - as the Senate votes on a measure to allow them to vote in local elections. There's also a new candidate in the presidential elections - the centrist François Bayrou.Liberation says it's finally time foreigners got the right to vote in local elections - while Le Monde accuses the Socialists of playing political football with the issue for decades. Le Figaro says the Senate vote is a waste of time, they don't want to see it pass - and le Parisien explains why Nicolas Sarkozy has done so many U-turns on this question. France Soir devotes its front page to newly announced presidential candidate François Bayrou - who's making a pitch for the centre of politics. Le Monde meanwhile reports industry minister Eric Besson spends all day on Twitter - and is planning to quit politics for football.
####2011 December 13####Dominique de Villepin joins the presidential race####France's former Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin has announced he'll run for president in next year's election. Meanwhile, divisions are starting to appear within the Socialist Party over a corruption scandal. Finally, controversy over a new film reveals deep divisions over the thorny question of independence in the French overseas territory of New Caledonia.
####2011 December 14####Made in France is back in fashion####All the presidential candidates are touting their policies to encourage companies to manufacture goods in France - but the papers are pretty cynical about how many extra jobs that could create. Also, a former minister has been arrested in the Karachi affair - and the heirs of Renault apparently aren't ashamed of the family's Nazi past.Le Parisien leads on the shooting in Belgium - saying it's hard to predict or explain this sort of random attack. Liberation is looking at the Karachi affair - the arrest of a former minister brings this scandal over alleged illegal kickbacks on Pakistani arms deals a step closer to President Sarkozy. La Croix reports all the candidates for next year's presidential election are falling over themselves to encourage French manufacturing - but Le Monde reckons it's doubtful their policies will actually create many jobs. Le Parisien reports that meanwhile the heirs of one of France's biggest manufacturers - Renault - are suing the state for compensation, over assets that were confiscated as a punishment for collaborating with the Nazis.
####2011 December 15####Chirac found guilty####Despite a long and well-documented list of corruption allegations, the conviction of Jacques Chirac surprises many. Is the two-year suspended sentence a slap on the wrist or a watershed moment for French politics?Ron SOFFER. Lawyer at the Paris and New York Bars; Stefan SIMONS. Paris correspondent, Der Spiegel; Marc PERELMAN. France 24 French Politics Editor; James SHIELDS. Professor of French Politics and Modern History, Aston University (from Birmingham, UK). Watch the second part here.
####2011 December 15####Chirac found guilty (part 2)####Despite a long and well-documented list of corruption allegations, the conviction of Jacques Chirac surprises many. Is the two-year suspended sentence a slap on the wrist or a watershed moment for French politics?Ron SOFFER. Lawyer at the Paris and New York Bars; Stefan SIMONS. Paris correspondent, Der Spiegel; Marc PERELMAN. France 24 French Politics Editor; James SHIELDS. Professor of French Politics and Modern History, Aston University (from Birmingham, UK). Watch the first part here.
####2011 December 15####Presidential election: Sarkozy rival makes surprise run####Dominique de Villepin - the flamboyant Gaullist, the man who emphatically said no to the war in Iraq, and the nemesis of Nicolas Sarkozy - took everyone by surprise this week by announcing he would run for president. Meanwhile, Socialist favourite François Hollande is struggling to position himself on the euro crisis and on a growing financial scandal engulfing his own party.On the set: Denis DEMONPION, Senior writer, Le Nouvel Observateur Magazine; Philip TURLE, Journalist, RFI. 
####2011 December 22####France's top female presidential candidates slug it out####Both women are eyeing the country’s top post. But French presidential candidates Marine Le Pen (right) and Eva Joly (left) have little in common. When they aired their differences this week, it was an acrimonious war of words.Armed with an arsenal of barbs, low-blows and ripostes, the top two female candidates in the 2012 French presidential race have been waging a war of words in recent days, setting the stage for a perfect media storm. Politically, Marine Le Pen, the 43-year-old leader of France’s far-right National Front, and Eva Joly, the 68-year-old Green Party candidate, stand on opposite sides of the ideological spectrum. Personally, the two women have little in common. The youngest daughter of National Front founder Jean-Marie Le Pen, the younger Le Pen was born in the upscale Parisian suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine and grew up in the French rightwing political establishment. Norwegian-born Joly came to France as a 20-year-old au pair in the early 1960s before rising to become one of France’s best-known investigative judges, famed for tackling corruption among the business and political elite. With her trademark red glasses, Joly is a household name in France and French viewers have grown accustomed to her Norwegian accent. When she won her party’s primary race earlier this year, Joly, who holds joint Norwegian-French nationality, became the first dual national to run for the French presidency. The latest hostilities have seen the two women airing political and personal differences in speeches and on the airwaves. The first salvo was fired by Le Pen on December 19 during a visit to a Christmas market on the majestic Champs-Elysées in Paris. In a speech focused on French-made products and re-industrialising the economy, Le Pen said Joly lacked legitimacy since she was an “SPF” – an acronym for the French “sans patrie fixe,” or without a fixed country. ‘Every time Eva Joly opens her mouth, it turns into a gaffe’ The very next day, Le Pen took her jibes a step further on a French radio station. This time, Le Pen accused Joly of being a Francophobe, or a person who hates France and French culture. "All her proposals are delusional and are often Francophobic. [Eva Joly] regularly expresses her hostility toward all things patriotic,” said Le Pen on Europe 1. “Every time Eva Joly opens her mouth, it turns into a gaffe,” Le Pen continued. “One wonders why is she running for the French presidential office when clearly everything French makes her bristle.” The National Front leader then proceeded to explain why she believed Joly was a Francophobe, enumerating themes familiar to the French public. The diatribe included allegations that Joly “wants to scrap July 14” – when France marks its National Day – and that the Green Party candidate has criticised the xenophobic underpinning of the “made in France” slogan that has turned into a campaign buzzword for many French presidential candidates. Earlier this year, Joly sparked a controversy when she suggested that the July 14 Bastille Day military march should be replaced by a civilian parade. Her suggestion saw members of the ruling UMP party – including French Prime Minister François Fillon – chastising her for “not being French enough” as well as calls for her to “go back to Norway”. The July 14 fracas proved embarrassing for Fillon when the media noted that Joly gained French citizenship in 1967, before Fillon – then 13 – had even left school. Joly herself, appeared to have the last word with a witty comeback, when she told Fillon that she had “not just stepped off the Viking ship”. ‘I’m the only one to have chosen France’ Never one to be outwitted, Joly’s reply came the very next day on the same radio station. And it was as quick as it was biting. “I chose France, I have lived in France for nearly 50 years, I’m the only one to have chosen France,” said Joly before going in for the kill. “It’s not for the daughter of a millionaire, an heiress to a party, heir to a torturer in Algeria, to decide who is French or not,” she added. A former lieutenant in the French Army during France’s brutal Algerian War (1954-1962), the senior Le Pen has been accused of practising torture in the former French colony. The National Front founder has vehemently denied the charges although he lost a defamation suit against leading French daily “Le Monde” over the accusations and in another case, a French court ruled that it was legitimate for three other French publications to publish these assertions. Needless to say, the Algerian War is a sensitive topic in the Le Pen household and Joly’s latest barb is quite likely to spark another round of verbal hostilities from her opponent on the far right. All of which will make for a lively campaign season.
####2011 December 28####French opposition anger at lacklustre voter registration campaign####As the deadline to register for next year’s elections looms, French opposition politicians have accused the government of deliberately refraining from encouraging new voters to register.President Nicolas Sarkozy’s ruling UMP party was accused this week of deliberately failing to encourage voter registration ahead of next year’s presidential and parliamentary elections. New voters – those who have recently turned 18 and those who have moved to a new district since the last elections – have to register at their local town halls by the end of December if they are to take part in next year’s polls. Traditionally, televised advertising campaigns are aired the year before a major election to get as many people to sign up as possible. But the effort has been muted this year, with low-key campaigns in individual town halls and some Internet advertising, but no public message on television calling on voters to make sure they are on the voting lists. Opposition politicians have said that voter apathy, especially in poorer districts and among the young who have a greater tendency to vote for left-wing parties, can only play into the hands of Sarkozy’s centre-right UMP. ‘The government was found wanting’ On Tuesday François Bayrou of the centrist MoDem said that “it is the first time in my memory, and on the eve of such an important year in French politics, that the government has failed to call on potential voters to register.” “It’s all the more shocking when you see that in some districts where an effort has been made to encourage registration there have been good results,” said the MoDem’s candidate for the presidency. “The government has been found wanting. They have tens of millions of euros available for such a campaign and they have failed to remind citizens to participate in this important decision-making process,” he said. Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, a spokeswoman for Socialist Party (PS) candidate François Hollande, estimated that 9% of the country’s eligible voters had not registered, including 29% of 18 year-olds and 13% of 18-22 year-olds. “These are going to be decisive elections. Has the government totally lost interest in young people?” she asked. “Or is it afraid that the youth will punish them at the ballot box? These are legitimate questions.” ‘A scandal’ In the past, decisive election results have had the effect of boosting the number of new registrations. After former far-right candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen caused a shock by reaching the second round of the 2002 presidential election, the number of new voters registering for the 2007 poll jumped 40%, to 1.4 million. Not so this year. And for Manual Valls, François Hollande’s head of communications, the fact that there has not been a big rush to register before the end of the year is “a scandal” attributable to the government’s “failure” to publicise civic duty and voter participation. Official encouragement to register has been limited to posters put up in town halls and cultural centres run by the Citizenship and Democracy Association (CIDEM), an organisation affiliated to the Interior Ministry for the past decade. Interior Minister Claude Guéant’s office said in a statement that the government had provided the CIDEM with €181,000 to spend on this year’s campaign, six times more than for the previous election. But funds did not extend to a television campaign, and according to Les Echos newspaper on Wednesday, Guéant’s office said that they “did not want to fund a campaign simply to get people to register, but to get people to vote.”
####2011 December 29####France makes it harder to become French####France will be making it harder for foreigners to seek French citizenship as of January. Critics say the new requirements, which include tough language tests and allegiance to “French values”, are an electoral ploy that panders to the far right.Foreigners seeking French nationality face tougher requirements as of January 1, when new rules drawn up by Interior Minister Claude Guéant come into force. Candidates will be tested on French culture and history, and will have to prove their French language skills are equivalent to those of a 15-year-old mother tongue speaker. They will also be required to sign a new charter establishing their rights and responsibilities. “Becoming French is not a mere administrative step. It is a decision that requires a lot of thought”, reads the charter, drafted by France’s High Council for Integration (HCI). In a more obscure passage, the charter suggests that by taking on French citizenship, “applicants will no longer be able to claim allegiance to another country while on French soil”, although dual nationality will still be allowed. Guéant, a member of President Nicolas Sarkozy’s ruling UMP party, described the process as “a solemn occasion between the host nation and the applicant”, adding that migrants should be integrated through language and “an adherence to the principals, values and symbols of our democracy”. He stressed the importance of the secular state and equality between women and men: rhetoric perceived largely as a snipe at Muslim applicants, who make up the majority of the 100,000 new French citizens admitted each year. France’s interior minister has made it clear that immigrants who refuse to “assimilate” into French society should be denied French citizenship. Earlier this year, Guéant intervened personally to ensure an Algerian-born man living in France was denied French nationality because of his “degrading attitude” to his French wife. That followed an earlier push by France’s former Immigration Minister Eric Besson to revise existing laws in order to strip polygamists of their acquired citizenship. Pandering to the far right? Guéant has come under criticism numerous times over the past year for allegedly pandering to the whims of far-right voters in his efforts to secure a second term for Sarkozy in 2012. The UMP has edged progressively further right over the course of Sarkozy’s term, even as the far-right National Front party continued to bite into its pool of voters. Marine Le Pen, the popular leader of the anti-immigration National Front, has been campaigning in favour of a ban on dual citizenship in France, which she blames for encouraging immigration and weakening French values. While several UMP members have endorsed her stance, Guéant has stopped short of calling for a ban on dual nationality, largely because of the legal difficulties such a move would entail. But the interior minister has taken a hard line on immigration, announcing plans to reduce the number of legal immigrants coming to France annually from 200,000 to 180,000 and calling for those convicted of felony to be expelled from the country. François Hollande, the Socialist Party’s candidate in forthcoming presidential elections, described Guéant’s stance as “the election strategy of a right wing ready to do anything in order to hold on to power”, adding that his own party would tackle all criminals “irrespective of their nationality”. Under further proposals put forward by the ruling UMP party, non-French children who would normally be naturalised at the age of 18 (those who are born in the country and have spent most of their childhood there) would instead have to formally apply to the state. Should Sarkozy and his party secure a second term in 2012, analysts predict a return to an immigration stance that hasn’t been seen in France for almost two decades. They point to a case of déjà vu: in 1993 Charles Pasqua, then France’s interior minister, coined the slogan “zero immigration” and introduced a bill that made it virtually impossible for children born in France to non-French parents to be naturalised.
####2011 December 29####Candidates 'must sleep'####La Croix reports most of the French feel presidential candidates are not addressing issues people are most concerned about: jobs, the cost of living and health care. That - and what the candidates are doing during their winter break - is the focus for Thursday 29th December 2011.The Catholic daily La Croix leads on a survey showing that 72 % of the French feel their presidential election candidates are not focusing enough on issues that matter to the public. Aujourd’hui-en-France/Le Parisien profiles those candidates as they take their winter holiday break. It quotes a medical expert who says they “must sleep” ahead of the political campaigning marathon that will end on May 6th. Libération leads on a move by two ruling party MPs to ban prostitution by criminalizing clients. The paper argues such a measure will only make prostitution less visible. Libération also looks at classic examples of political jibes in France in decades past with a two-page feature. And the Communist paper L’Humanité says people working in the public sector who hand out social security benefits are over-worked. The headline there: “Les allocs au bord de la crise de nerfs”.
####2011 December 30####The World Next Year: from new Islamist governments to US and French elections (part 2)####François Picard and his panel discuss the Arab revolutions, the financial crisis and other important events of 2011 and their implications for 2012. Also on the agenda in this new year are elections in France and the US - can Barack Obama and Nicolas Sarkozy be re-elected?Steven ERLANGER, Paris Bureau Chief, New York Times; Patrick SMITH, Editor in Chief, The Africa Report; Christopher DICKEY, Paris Bureau Chief, Newsweek Magazine; Aude BARON, Editor in Chief, 'Le Plus-Nouvel Obs' (Le Nouvel Observateur) Watch part one.
####2012 January 04####Government backs down on issue of international work visas####French Interior Minister Claude Guéant has revised his controversial clampdown on international work visas after a meeting with education groups. Critics called the initial move a ploy to appeal to the far right ahead of the forthcoming presidential elections this year. But some fear the damage has already been done, since many young students have had to return to their native countries after graduation.
####2012 January 04####French union worker’s trial becomes hot election issue####With France’s presidential election just around the corner, candidates on the left have rallied behind an embattled union leader, Xavier Mathieu (pictured), but with one notable exception.The case of a union leader who refuses to submit a sample of his DNA to authorities in the northern city of Amiens has become a rallying call for the French left as the country gears up for the presidential elections in April. Four presidential hopefuls personally showed their support for Xavier Mathieu on Wednesday, who in 2010 was convicted for participating in the ransacking of a public building during a protest against job cuts at tyre-manufacturer Continental, and for which he was fined 4,000 euros. Mathieu said he participated in the protest but denied having destroyed any property. After his 2010 conviction, Mathieu refused to submit a saliva sample that would have allowed authorities to keep his DNA on file. Under French law, people found guilty of certain crimes are required to submit to this form of data collection. The labour leader protested, arguing that he would never allow his DNA to be filed among those of serial killers and child molesters. Mathieu was already acquitted in June 2011 for refusing to submit to DNA sampling, but state prosecutors appealed the case and he was back in court Wednesday. On Monday he denounced what he called “the obsession” of a government which “two years after the conflict, continues to persecute those who had the courage to fight layoffs”. Symbolic battle for the left Eva Joly (Green party), Jean-Luc Melenchon (Left Front), Nathalie Arthaud (Worker’s Struggle) and Philippe Poutou (New Anti-capitalist Party) lined up in front of the court of appeals in Amiens Wednesday to back Mathieu. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 François Hollande: from obscurity to presidential frontrunner François Hollande, Socialist Party candidate and frontrunner in the election, was the only candidate on the left who declined to appear alongside the unionist. The Socialist Party said that a local senator would officially represent the political group at the gathering. In 2009 Mathieu became the emblematic leader of the Continental labour battle and the “Contis”, as the workers become known in France. The plant in northern France was closed leaving 1,120 people unemployed and a community devastated. However, a heated and unrelenting campaign by workers saw them collect 50,000 euros in severance. On April 22, 2009 around 200 Continental workers invaded a regional government building, breaking windows and trashing offices to protest what they said was the government’s lack of commitment in protecting their jobs. The story of the “Contis” fighting back has since become a symbolic battle for the left. Election to be won on centre ground? According to Florence Faucher, director of research at the National Foundation of Political Science in Paris, there is little motivation for Hollande to appear alongside other candidates farther to the left. “The position of the far-left parties is what it usually is, and that is to exert pressure on the Socialist Party candidate to be more on the left. But the elections are won in the political centre, so appearing farther on the left is not helpful to Hollande,” Faucher said. Speaking on RTL television hours before his trial, Mathieu said he was disappointed the Socialist candidate Hollande would not personally appear in Amiens. “It’s sad, but it’s their choice… [Continental workers] have been the symbol of the working class struggle for the past three years.”
####2012 January 04####'Nasty piece of work'####MEDIAWATCH FRANCE, 04/01/12: An alleged insult by François Hollande is getting a lot of attention in the French media. The Socialist presidential candidate reportedly called Nicolas Sarkozy a "nasty piece of work" in off-the-record remarks. Sarkozy supporters have called on Hollande to apologise, while Hollande says his words were taken out of context and has spoken out against a useless controversy.
####2012 January 04####Socialist rival Hollande attacks Sarkozy on economy####Socialist opposition leader François Hollande staged his strongest attack yet Tuesday on conservative rival President Nicolas Sarkozy, accusing him of economic and moral blunders during his five-year term in office.REUTERS - French socialist Francois Hollande launched his presidential campaign in earnest on Tuesday, accusing Nicolas Sarkozy of running the economy onto the rocks as weeks of shadow boxing ended in his strongest attack yet on his conservative rival. Stung by criticism he was failing to tackle Sarkozy head on, the usually avuncular Hollande decried his opponent as a “president of the privileged” whose five years in office had been marred by economic and moral blunders. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 François Hollande: from obscurity to presidential frontrunner “I can already hear Nicolas Sarkozy’s panicked lieutenants arguing that it would be unwise to change captains in the middle of a storm,” he wrote in a two-page open letter to voters carried in the left-leaning Liberation daily. “When the ship has already run aground, this can only make you smile,” said Hollande, who won the Socialist nomination late last year after attempted rape charges, later dropped, forced the then IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn out of the race. The more aggressive campaign tone came as Hollande’s opinion poll lead over Sarkozy has narrowed ahead of a first round ballot on April 22, with centrist Francois Bayrou enjoying a bump in support. The incumbent president is a strong performer on the campaign trail and aides hope his handling of the euro zone debt crisis, which has won him grudging support from critics, will allow him to claw back the deficit. In a sombre New Year’s message, Sarkozy pledged to find ways to pull the economy out of stagnation but urged voters to be stoical as he worked on structural reforms with unions to boost jobs and protect France’s cherished welfare state. Gravitas Derided by left-wing rivals as a “pedal-boat captain”, Hollande, who has never held ministerial office, has sought to add some international gravitas to his bid for the presidential Elysee Palace with a series of trips to major European capitals. But his strategy came unstuck in Berlin during a speech that was seen as clumsy, notably by slamming the idea, being pushed by the French and German governments, of making all euro zone countries enshrine budget-balancing rules in their constitutions. French politics FRANCE Police find 1.3 tonnes of cocaine on Air France flight The rule aims to force future governments to bring public deficits under control and thus help Europe bring its debt crisis under control. Hollande returned to the attack in a television appearance late on Tuesday, criticising a plan by Sarkozy’s government to raise sales tax before the election in order to lower companies’ social welfare contributions and boost jobs. “I don’t want the French ... (to) be hit with 3 or 4 points of sales tax because there’s been a decline in revenues,” he told France 2 television. Hollande’s campaign director Pierre Moscovici last month predicted an end to the “phoney campaign” and the beginning of a new robust phase of campaigning. “In 2012 there is going to be, from the very first days of the year, a new phase, one of decisive political confrontation,” he wrote in a blog post. Pollsters say Hollande’s move aimed to shore up support among the Socialists’ traditional supporters, dismayed by his lacklustre performances to date. “He was slow off the ramp, he had lost momentum,” said Stephane Rozes, director of the CAP political consultancy. “Now he has to re-engage with the nation and come up to the front line by getting more personally involved in the campaign.” Sarkozy’s camp is pressing hard on what it sees as its rival’s key weakness—a tendency toward abstract speech and lack of a clear election platform. “Reading this open letter, you wonder if Francois Hollande would have done better to write an essay about being and nothingness to start the new year,” Thierry Mariani, a Sarkozy ally and secretary of state for transport, said in a statement.  
####2012 January 05####France's 'forgotten and angry'####The press look at worries about a new form of VAT President Nicolas Sarkozy wants to introduce. There's a continued row over Hollande's remark that Sarkozy is "a nasty piece of work" - he says he was quoted out of context. And the economic crisis is running so deep that elite graduates from the "Grandes Ecoles" fear the dole queue. That's the focus for this Thursday 5th January 2012.The website Mediapart has a feature story on people feeling “forgotten and angry” in the presidential election campaign and who could switch to the far-right. ‘Ouvriers, employés, ces oubliés qui vivent le rage au coeur”. The Communist paper L’Humanité leads that almost two out of three French people - 64% - are giving a “Massive NON” to Nicolas Sarkozy’s plan to introduce a new form of VAT. The left-wing daily Libération interviews economist Nicolas Bouzou, who backs Sarkozy, saying the new measure will be balanced by lower hiring costs for employers. Le Figaro reports that the ruling UMP is accusing the Socialists of “debasing” the debate after Socialist Party presidential candidate François Hollande reportedly told journalists Sarkozy was a “sale mec” – “a nasty piece of work”. Le Parisien/Aujourd’hui-en-France headlines: “The war of words” saying the spat is same-old-same-old as far as election campaigns go. It reports the UMP counter-attack: “Hollande is a non-entity, the boy is indecision itself”. And Le Monde reports that France’s top-flight graduates from the “Grandes Ecoles” can no longer cruise through life picking the juicy jobs. They face dole queue fears too. The cartoon depicts one elite graduate in a recruitment office, saying: “Oh I am currently in a professional repositioning phase. I would like a pro-active exchange with one of your headhunters”.
####2012 January 06####France 2012: Hollande tries to up the ante####The New Year sees party hostilities reopen after the Christmas truce, as Socialists and Conservatives cross swords over an apparent insult. Also, just how long should Nicolas Sarkozy wait before throwing his hat into the presidential ring? And we meet a top-level athlete who says that despite all her achievements, she still thinks about her pension.Programme prepared by Lise Barcellini, Luke Brown, Claire Brown, Gary Schimmel-Bauer and Nathalie Tourret.
####2012 January 07####The World This Week - January 6th, 2012####600 years on, Joan of Arc still matters. Just ask Nicolas Sarkozy ahead of his bid for re-election as French president. Also, what the steady rise of the religious right in the Republican party and political Islam in Arab elections have in common.Régis LE SOMMIER. Deputy Editorial Director, Paris Match; Fouad AL OBEID. Paris Correspondent, Kuwait Times; Anne-Elisabeth MOUTET. Columnist, The Sunday Telegraph; Craig COPETAS. Senior Writer, Bloomberg News. Watch the second part here. 
####2012 January 07####The World This Week - January 6th, 2012 (part 2)####600 years on, Joan of Arc still matters. Just ask Nicolas Sarkozy ahead of his bid for re-election as French president. Also, what the steady rise of the religious right in the Republican party and political Islam in Arab elections have in common.Régis LE SOMMIER. Deputy Editorial Director, Paris Match; Fouad AL OBEID. Paris Correspondent, Kuwait Times; Anne-Elisabeth MOUTET. Columnist, The Sunday Telegraph; Craig COPETAS. Senior Writer, Bloomberg News. Watch the first part here.
####2012 January 09####Hollande and Sarkozy almost neck-and-neck####The presidential election campaign grabs most of the headlines with the four main players - François Hollande, Nicolas Sarkozy, Marine Le Pen and François Bayrou - each given prominence. That, and the controversial 'Robin Hood' tax, is the focus for this look at the French papers, Monday 9th January 2012.Le Figaro reports on the latest poll in the presidential election race with the headline: “Sarkozy is catching up on Hollande”. Le Figaro’s editorial asks if Hollande is simply relying on an anti-Sarkozy vote because – according to the right-wing daily – the Socialist’s message is not getting across. Libération headlines that 30% of the French, almost one in three, are not ruling out voting for Marine Le Pen. The editorial focuses on another statistic from its survey: 68% say Marine Le Pen is more credible than her father Jean-Marie Le Pen. The free paper 20 Minutes is leading with a photo of the centrist Francois Bayrou. The headline there: “centre of attraction”. He is gaining ground. Le Parisien/Aujourd'hui-en-France has a piece about “Sarkozy courting Bayrou”. The president will need centrist support if he gets through to a second round vote on May 6th. Business daily La Tribune, in an editorial, describes Nicolas Sarkozy as an “Artificier”, a man putting on a fireworks display with a series of controversial measures. And Les Echos, in its editorial, looks at “The utopia of a Tobin Tax” on financial transactions.
####2012 January 10####Sarkozy speeds up reforms before presidential election####Nicolas Sarkozy passes economic reforms in an attempt to boost his ratings before the April elections. Former footballer Eric Cantona moves from the pitch to politics, rallying support for a presidential bid. But he doesn’t actually want to run the country. Finally, the man at the heart of the breast implant scandal admits using industrial silicon, putting women’s health at risk.
####2012 January 11####Rwanda genocide report: 'irrefutable'####The papers today look at a French judicial investigation into the Rwandan genocide, as well as one of the issues in the current presidential campaign - tax breaks for families. And there's a report that judges want to check Sarkozy's campaign accounts for 2007. That's the focus for this Wednesday, 11th January 2012.Libération leads on its front page: “Rwandan genocide – irrefutable”. An investigation by a French judge concludes the weapons that brought down the plane of the late Rwandan President Juvénal Habyarimana in April 1994 were fired from a military camp belonging to his Presidential Guard. The paper, in its editorial, says the investigation restores honour to French justice. The Catholic daily La Croix looks at one of the presidential campaign issues: tax breaks for families. The opposition Socialists say they favour the better-off and want reform. Le Figaro leads on that, too, saying the Socialist Party candidate has made another “couac” (false note) in his campaign. And Libération picks up on a report that judges in Bordeaux want to look at Nicolas Sarkozy’s campaign accounts for 2007, as part of an investigation into possible illegal party financing.
####2012 January 12####Presidential race - back to basics: jobs, jobs, jobs####After the war in Libya and the eurozone debt crisis, France's attention is finally turning back to bread and butter issues as the presidential campaign begins for real. The social issues, first and foremost unemployment, are back at the forefront.On the set: Raphaël NEDZYNSKI, Force Ouvrière Trade Union; Michel GUILBAUD, General Director, MEDEF (French Employers' Association); Ana NAVARRO-PEDRO, Paris Correspondent, "Visão" Magazine. 
####2012 January 12####'The time for change is now', say French Socialists####Socialist presidential candidate François Hollande celebrated the opening of his campaign headquarters in Paris on Wednesday, unveiling his official campaign slogan – “The time for change is now” – in front of a panel of journalists.Roughly 100 days before the first round of voting in the French presidential election, Socialist candidate Francois Hollande opened his campaign headquarters on Wednesday in Paris as a panel of journalists looked on. He also unveiled his official campaign slogan: “The time for change is now.” The site of Hollande’s operation is a mansion - across from the Unesco headquarters - in Paris’s chic 7th district, though the candidate was mindful of not riling a French population faced with high unemployment by choosing an overly lavish building. Hollande’s campaign is renting the building until May 7 for 40,000 euros per month, and has vowed to turn the space into a welcoming place for the 80 campaign staff, journalists, Socialist supporters and, in the candidate’s own words, “anyone who wants to join us”. A minimalist layout The campaign’s press service described the headquarters as a space of one thousand square metres spread out over four floors and organised in a very “rational” manner to maximise efficiency. The door to the mansion opens into an entrance, where a huge banner reads: “For 2012 to truly be a new year: Hollande 2012.” An ornate iron ramp leads to a designated press area on the first floor, where photos of French citizens, accompanied by the campaign slogan, adorn white walls. Hollande’s office is on the sparsely decorated second floor. The office of campaign manager Pierre Moscovici is right next door, while that of communications director Manuel Valls is located on the third floor. Web campaign One of the more surprising discoveries in Hollande’s headquarters is his girlfriend's office. Journalist Valerie Trierweiler is also located on the “communications floor”, in a sign that she may have a plum role in Hollande’s communications strategy. The fourth and last floor of the building is occupied by Hollande’s online operation, which works daily to update the candidate’s Web site and social network accounts. Various Socialist heavyweights were on hand to help their colleague celebrate the opening of the building. At the press conference, Hollande praised the “unity” of the once-fractured party – perhaps another indication that change is indeed the theme of the hour. An enormous banner hangs on a wall near the entrance to the headquarters. (Credit: A. Mazoue) The first floor of the building has a designated press area. (Credit: A. Mazoue) Journalists started setting up in the press area on January 11, the day the headquarters officially opened. (Credit: A. Mazoue) "C'est maintenant", or "Now is the time", reads a banner with Hollande's campaign slogan. (Credit: A. Mazoue) Hollande in his office. (Credit: A. Mazoue) Manuel Valls, the communications director for Hollande's campaign, in his office. (Credit: A. Mazoue) A meeting room in the "communications" department. (Credit: A. Mazoue) Valerie Trierweiler, Hollande's girlfriend, has her own office on the communications floor. (Credit: A. Mazoue) The last floor is occupied by the campaign's online operation. (Credit: A. Mazoue) Several of Hollande's campaign staffers work to update the candidate's website and social networking profile pages. (Credit: A. Mazoue) The outside of Hollande's campaign headquarters, located in Paris's chic 7th district. (Credit: A. Mazoue) Across from Hollande's campaign offices is the headquarters of UNESCO, the UN's cultural agency. (Credit: A. Mazoue)
####2012 January 12####A 'trashy' presidential campaign####MEDIAWATCH FRANCE, Thurs. 12/1/2011: The UMP party is being slammed for using "trashy" tactics to undermine the left in the run-up to this spring's residential election. Also, is Eva Joly the "Sarah Palin" of France? So says Brigitte Bardot. Finally, another bad headline for DSK and a website to summon Steve Jobs from beyond the grave...
####2012 January 13####National Front: the acceptable face of far-right politics?####Do voters really think France's far-right "FN" is a party like any other? What’s the likelihood that neither main party will make it into the second round? Also, we head to Guadeloupe, to find out what French voters over 6,000 kilometres from Paris make of it all.Programme prepared by Lise Barcellini, Luke Brown, Narimène Laouadi, Gary Schimmel-Bauer and Nathalie Tourret.  
####2012 January 13####'100 days to go'####FRENCH PAPERS, Fri. 13/01/12. There are now just 100 days to go until the presidential elections. All the French papers are focusing on the countdown. Right-leaning Le Figaro puts forward ten questions to help voters understand the election. Meanwhile, left-leaning Libération says that according to its sources, Nicolas Sarkozy is going to include legalizing gay marriage in his election programme.Get the France 24 press review on your iPhone or become a fan on Facebook. Some articles from today’s French press review: LIBERATION: “Gay marriage: gaining ground”  LIBERATION: Editorial LIBERATION: Glossary   LE FIGARO: “10 Questions on the election” LES ECHOS: “100 days and too many questions” LES ECHOS: “Four-candidate race” 
####2012 January 16####Presidential hopefuls cash in on France AAA loss####The loss of France’s AAA credit rating is a potential boon to presidential hopefuls trying to catch up with the two candidates from France’s biggest political parties.The loss of France’s AAA credit rating by Standard & Poor’s three months ahead of the presidential election sent shockwaves across the country’s political landscape and spelt potential trouble for the race’s two frontrunners. The right-wing government of President Nicolas Sarkozy rushed to minimise the potential damage of the S&P cut. On Saturday, French Prime Minister Francois Fillon said the downgrade was not a surprise. President Sarkozy reacted on Sunday, saying he would present reforms aimed at stimulating economic growth by the end of the month. “This is a test and as such, we have to confront it” he said. FINANCE How S&P’s downgrade will impact France Sarkozy is widely expected to seek re-election in France’s April 22 presidential poll, but has not yet made his candidacy official. He is closely trailing opposition Socialist Party candidate François Hollande, the frontrunner according to current opinion polls. Hollande immediately took advantage of S&P’s announcement to lay blame for the downgrade squarely at the door of the president. “It’s not France that was downgraded, it’s a certain policy,” the Socialist candidate told supporters on Saturday in clear reference to Sarkozy’s government. However, according to political analysts in France, candidates running alongside Hollande and Sarkozy are more likely to reap the benefits from S&P’s announcement. For Eric Bonnet, director of research at the French BVA polling institute, the AAA downgrade plays directly into the hands of centrist François Bayrou, far-right leader Marine Le Pen, and the Communist Party-backed candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon. Disappointed voters Bonnet says the downgrade will likely be viewed as a political failure for Sarkozy. “The electorate on the right has already expressed its disappointment in his tenure, and this could further steer votes away from Sarkozy to Bayrou or Le Pen,” he said. Jérome Saint-Martin, director of opinion studies at polling institute CSA, said S&P’s decision also represents a hurdle for Hollande’s campaign. “The downgrade will force him to tone down campaign promises and avoid talk of boosting state spending in the future,” Saint-Martin said. Pollsters agree voters will likely feel Hollande has yet to commit to concrete solutions and so be inclined to vote for Jean-Luc Mélenchon, a candidate farther to left ideologically than the Socialist candidate. “Switching support to Bayrou, Le Pen and Mélenchon was already a trend among voters. We can assume [the downgrade] will accelerate this trend,” Bonnet said. Reaping political returns The ‘outsider’ candidates appear well-aware of the new opportunity to relay their ideas and score points among voters. Bayrou, who came in third in the 2007 election, reacted quickly to the loss of the AAA. He told journalists just hours after news broke, that previous French governments on both the right and left were responsible for the downgrade. "All the optimistic and authoritative statements of recent months are thus cruelly contradicted by the facts," said Bayrou, who launched his election bid on Dec. 8 and is polling at around 12 per cent support. Le Pen, candidate for the far-right National Front who currently has around 19 per cent backing , used the event to confirm her repeated calls for France to quit the euro and distance itself from European Union institutions. Mélenchon, on track to win 6 per cent of votes, called on people to rally in protest at S&P’s Paris offices. “Standard & Poor’s had declared financial war on France…. We must fight back," the leftist said. Standard & Poor’s downgraded nine European countries in total on Friday, stripping France and Austria of their triple-A status. On Monday, the Moody’s rating agency said that, unlike S&P, it was maintaining France’s AAA, but analysts say that the damage left by S&P’s announcement will not easily be undone.
####2012 January 17####French centrist Bayrou leads in popularity, new poll shows####Centrist presidential candidate François Bayrou leads President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist François Hollande in French popularity polls, a survey showed on Monday, but remains in fourth place regarding voter intentions.REUTERS - Centrist politician Francois Bayrou is more popular than his rivals for the French presidency a poll showed on Monday, suggesting he could make a surge similar to 2007 when he almost squeezed into a two-candidate runoff. Although the former education minister remains in fourth place in terms of voter intentions, Bayrou has been stealing support from President Nicolas Sarkozy and also from Socialist candidate Francois Hollande, who has led the field since announcing in December that he was running for president. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Centrist François Bayrou returns for another presidential fight Bayrou's approval rating jumped to 56 percent at the start of January, a 20 percentage point rise in five months, according to the IPSOS popularity poll for weekly magazine Paris-Match. Bayrou set up his own centrist party - the Democratic Movement Party (MoDem) - after narrowly failing to get through the first round of the 2007 election, with close to 19 percent of the vote. He became known as the "Third Man" in that race, courted by both right- and left-wing mainstream parties who wanted his endorsement in the runoff . Monday's poll was based on interviews with 948 people of voting age on Jan. 13 and 14. It puts Bayrou on an even standing with Hollande, but a greater proportion said they disapproved of the latter. The survey, taken just after France was downgraded by ratings agency Standard & Poor's, shows Sarkozy's approval rating slipped 2 points to 34 percent. Sixty-three percent of respondents said they disapproved of his performance. Monday's daily IFOP poll showed that Hollande had 28.5 percent support and Sarkozy had 25 percent in terms of voter intentions for the first round of the election on April 22. Far-right candidate Marine Le Pen came third with 20 percent while Bayrou was in fourth with 12.5 percent, though he has regularly been polling around 15-16 percent.  
####2012 January 18####Sarkozy calls unions, labour leaders for crisis talks####French President Nicolas Sarkozy convened an urgent "social summit" between labour unions and business leaders Wednesday in the wake of a Standard and Poor's downgrade and persistent concerns about slow economic growth and unemployment.AFP - President Nicolas Sarkozy staged a pre-election crisis jobs summit Wednesday to try to boost the recession-bound French economy as well as his own chances of getting re-elected. The "social summit" came just five days after Standard and Poor's downgraded France's credit rating and dealt a severe blow to the right-winger's hopes of hanging on to his job after the presidential vote three months from now. The leaders of the five main unions and three employers' groups sat down around a table in the president's Elysee palace along with Sarkozy, his prime minister and six ministers. "The gravity of the crisis obliges us to make decisions," Sarkozy told them, according to a text provided by his office. TWEETS FROM THE ELYSEE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE After the morning summit, he announced 430 million euros ($550 million) worth of new measures to encourage struggling firms to keep workers on and to retrain them. All necessary measures must be taken to "keep workers in their activity (and) to train workers within the company rather than making them redundant" to join the nearly three million people currently out of work, he said. Sarkozy said he would wait till the end of the month to announce details of his plans for a "social tax" -- to offset planned cuts in payroll charges -- and for making working hours more flexible. Union leaders gave a lukewarm reaction to the summit, with CFDT leader saying there were a "few useful measures" but that the government was "vague" on how they would be financed. CGT leader Bernard Thibault dismissed the measures as having "no real impact on the employment situation today," with 9.8 percent of the workforce out of a job, a 12-year high. Thibault said he thoroughly disagreed with Sarkozy and employers' argument that the real cause of unemployment was the high cost of labour in France. Sarkozy was pinning his hopes on Wednesday's summit to reverse the poll ratings that put him in second place behind his Socialist challenger Francois Hollande and just ahead of far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen. But unions oppose his "social tax" plan, which would cut payroll charges on employers and workers and recoup the revenue mainly by raising the sales tax. They are against measures that would hit consumers' pockets at a time when the economic outlook is grim and the country expected to fall into recession. The problem for the president is that he wants to push through potentially costly reforms while France is in a budget-tightening cycle. Union scepticism is shared by many French, with nearly three out of four people saying they believe the much-publicised summit will result in little or no change, according to a poll in the communist daily L'Humanite. Sarkozy reportedly told allies last month: "If we lose the triple-A (credit rating), I'm dead." He had staked his re-election bid on convincing voters that he was the only candidate with the stature and experience to save France from economic meltdown. Sarkozy justified pushing through two austerity packages as necessary to defend France's triple-A rating. Friday's downgrades had been mostly expected, but analysts said the move showed the eurozone debt crisis was worsening. The downgrade means France may now have to pay more to borrow on international money markets, which could raise the cost of borrowing for businesses and households and dampen already faltering economic growth.  
####2012 January 18####'1,000 new French jobseekers every day'####There's only one subject in the French papers this morning - today's crisis summit on unemployment chaired by Nicolas Sarkozy. The papers weight up various politicians' propositions for how to slash the soaring figures - without, it must be said, having much confidence in any of them.Business paper Les Echos is not very impressed with Sarkozy's plan for "social" VAT to save employers cash on social security contributions - they say he announces new reforms so often voters have stopped listening. Liberation reckons there are 1,000 new jobseekers in France every week - and they've evaluated every candidate's proposals to keep those numbers down. Le Figaro, on the other hand, thinks Sarkozy is on exactly the right track - and if only it were cheaper to hire and easier to fire workers, everything would be resolved.
####2012 January 19####Sarkozy's strategy: is the French president working too hard to campaign?####As France’s presidential election suddenly heats up, can the incumbent reverse the tide? François Picard’s panel rates the campaign strategy of a Nicolas Sarkozy who is trailing badly in the polls.Freddie WINCKLER, CEO, J. Walter Thompson Paris; Charles GIVADINOVICH, National Secretary, UMP; Rama SALL, General Secretary, Socialists' Youth Movement; Waddick DOYLE, Chair of Global Communication Department, American University of Paris. Watch the second part
####2012 January 19####Sarkozy: The 'moving target' strategy####Nicolas Sarkozy and the main French unions met this week for a so-called "crisis summit" aimed at finding new ways to boost employment. But was it for real or just for show? Also on the show, whatever happened to the great green hope? The environmental party was supposed to be on the cusp of becoming a major force in French politics, but its presidential candidate is vanishing from view fast.On the set: Philip TURLE, Journalist, RFI Jean-Marc GONIN, Senior Writer, Le Figaro Magazine.
####2012 January 23####'French presidential front-runner declares war on rich'####French presidential candidate François Hollande gets his first serious attention in the international press today - as some of Britain's papers worry he might have leant too far to the left. We're also talking about Yemen, Egypt and of course Newt Gingrich.The Guardian is thrilled with François Hollande's promise to attack the financial industry - saying he's shown he's got the clout to take on Nicolas Sarkozy. The Times though is pretty alarmed - worrying he's returning to the politics of class war. In the Middle East, Gulf News and the National both discuss whether it's right to give outgoing Yemeni president Saleh immunity from prosecution - and al Masry al Youm looks at the lessons learnt from a year of Egyptian revolution. The US papers are trying to work out why Newt Gingrich did so well - the New York Times says it's a definitive change in Republican politics, whereas for the Daily Beast it comes down to charisma.
####2012 January 26####Who is François Hollande?####He’s shed the pounds, he’s dropped the jokes, but does the Socialist front-runner have what it takes to be French president? François Picard’s panel looks at a candidate who’s 20 points ahead in the polls but untested in such a race.Thomas CHEVANDIER. National Secretary, Socialist Party Youth Movement; Craig COPETAS. Journalist; Mathieu DOIRET. Political analyst, IPSOS polling institute; John GAFFNEY. Professor of Politics, Co-Director, Aston Centre for Europe, Aston University. Author of "Political leadership in France: from Charles de Gaulle to Nicolas Sarkozy" (from Rennes, France). Watch the second part.
####2012 January 26####A pact against austerity, reaching from Paris to Washington?####It's François Hollande who gets most press attention in today's papers - as he reveals his 60-point-plan for France. A lot of the papers are also comparing him to Barack Obama - with both campaigning on a platform of equality and higher taxes for the rich.Le Parisien has the exclusive on what Hollande's 60-point-plan for France is - but there's nothing really new. Several papers note the similarities between his rhetoric and Barack Obama's State of the Union speech - Libération dreams of an anti-austerity pact stretching from Paris to Washington, while Le Figaro accuses them both of fiscal populism. Libération is also looking at Alassane Ouattara's visit today - and Nicolas Sarkozy's attempt to move out the shadow of France's colonial legacy in Africa.
####2012 January 27####Far-left fights for working-class vote####Far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon (pictured) battles the far-right for the working-class vote. Meanwhile, Socialist hopeful François Hollande has rolled out his manifesto, but does it prove he's got the stature to be the next president? And with jobless numbers rising, we meet a woman who works at a French job centre.Programme prepared by Lise Barcellini, Luke Brown, Narimène Laouadi, Gary Schimmel-Bauer and Nathalie Tourret.
####2012 January 27####The Science of Choosing a Candidate - by his Face####With election campaigns brewing in both France and the United States, Slate asks whether looks actually matter in how voters choose between rivals. The Economist says that Newt Gingrich is a veritable "factory of ideas". And on this side of the Atlantic, the Guardian says that after a lacklustre start, Francois Hollande's campaign is picking up steam.The enthusiasm in the French papers for Francois Hollande's 60-point plan has overflowed beyond the channel and into the opinion pages of The Guardian. After an initial lacklustre campaign he held an impressive rally last weekend, says the daily, having laid out a detailed manifesto that his opponents are having trouble taking aim at.  Across the Atlantic, and eyeing the US election, The Economist says that Newt Gingrich is a veritable "factory of ideas," who is however held back by an erratic personality and a tendency to flip-flop. He first supported the idea of every American having health insurance, only to oppose President Barack Obama's proposal later. He once supported cap-and-trade systems to reduce greenhouse emissions, but no longer.  The Atlantic says yes, he has lots of ideas, but they are not necessarily viable ones. He tried to console those who will be put out of work with the end of the Space Shuttle, by saying there will be a space colony on Mars. In fact, he is reported as saying, Mars will be the 51st state.  Away from politics, the crack team of US Navy Seals rescued hostages in Somalia this week. The Telegraph laments the fact that British hostages are still languishing there and in other hotspots, but no such mission is under way (as far as we know). The British SAS - a world class special forces team in its own right is, it says, capable of launching simimar missions, but successive British governments have been too risk-averse, and avoided such daring missions unless absolutely necessary. 
####2012 January 27####The World this Week - January 27th, 2012 (Part 2)####Even if it was off the record, you know it’s not going well for the incumbent when he starts contemplating life after the presidency. François Picard’s panel looks at why Nicolas Sarkozy finds himself 20 percentage points down in the polls.Marcus MABRY, Editor at large, The International Herald Tribune; Danna HARMAN, Europe correspondent, Haaretz; Judah GRUNSTEIN, Editor-in-Chief, World Politics Review; Régis LE SOMMIER, Deputy Editorial Director, Paris Match. Watch the first part.
####2012 January 30####'A lost President'####The papers pass judgment on Nicolas Sarkozy's big television interview, broadcast live or 8 or 9 channels last night - and views are pretty mixed, ranging from praise to derision.Le Figaro is kindest to Sarkozy this morning - saying he's brave enough to continue suggesting unpopular policies like a VAT rise because he realises that's what France needs. Les Echos also backs his reforming zeal to the end - but for Liberation, it just shows he's desperate and clutching at straws in an attempt to win voters back. L'Humanité is even harsher - saying raising VAT is just the latest measure in a presidency that has changed direction several times, but always hitting the poorest hardest.
####2012 January 31####Has Sarkozy left it too late?####It's the president's timing that's under fire from the papers today - they attack Sarkozy for announcing potentially important policies at the last minute, and also leaving the big announcement - his candidacy - to the last minute.Le Figaro, normally Nicolas Sarkozy's biggest cheerleader, today says he needs to pick up the pace - while Le Monde criticises him for wasting potentially good policies on the last minute of his presidency. Liberation say he's done another U-turn - replacing 2007's "Work more to earn more" slogan, with "Work less to earn less", while La Croix says his labour reform plans haven't gone down all that well with bosses either. Marine Le Pen is also hitting front pages - with Le Parisien asking whether she's bluffing when she says she may not get enough signatures from France's mayors to stand in the election.
####2012 February 01####Bank-bashing French presidential hopeful heads to London####Presidential frontrunner François Hollande will visit the UK in February to seek votes from French expatriates, but London will be all ears after the Socialist candidate reportedly “declared war” on the financial district, the City.Just days after François Hollande’s bank-bashing election manifesto got London's financial district fired up, the presidential frontrunner is planning a 24-hour trip to the heart of the lion's den. Revealed by British daily The Guardian on Monday, the Socialist Party confirmed the late-February visit when questioned by FRANCE 24, but refused to give further details. Hollande is probably betting on a rendezvous with British Prime Minister David Cameron and hoping to charm some 400,000 UK-based French nationals, who have historically leaned to the right when choosing their president. But his hosts will be more interested in what Hollande might say about the City, after right-leaning British daily The Times said Hollande’s manifesto had put the UK financial hub "in the firing line". The Times claimed that Hollande would “tear up” European austerity plans if elected and make the City his main target with increased taxes on bank profits, a ban on banking in tax havens and an end to "toxic" investments and stock options. London Mayor Boris Johnson joined the tirade, warning the presidential hopeful not to “make a mistake that would damage the UK economy” merely for “short-term political vindictiveness”. The cross-channel tiff made even Nicolas Sarkozy look popular up north, and a trip to London for Hollande very poorly timed. An important campaign stop “This trip will provide a convenient stage for Hollande,” says Dominique Moisi, a Paris-based political analyst specialised in international relations. “He needs to prove to the City that when and if he’s elected president, it won’t mean an end to French capitalism”. Nonetheless, Moisi stresses that the visit is primarily a campaign stop. “Sarkozy visited London before his election in 2007, it’s only normal that Hollande is doing the same.” Hollande is far from eagerly awaited among French expats in London however, who expressed either surprise or bemusement when asked about his visit. “People are talking about it here, but more as a joke,” said one French PhD student living in the northeast part of the capital. Others had not even heard he was coming. 'PARIS-ON-THAMES' The French government puts the number of French nationals living in the UK (not including Scotland) at between 350,000 and 400,000. Some 55% of those live in London, which is considered France’s ‘sixth city’ in terms of numbers. French locals call their adopted capital ‘Paris on Thames’. www.gouvernement.fr London-based academic Philippe Marlière argues that Hollande’s London visit is "above all else hoped to put him on the map because he’s not very well known yet in Britain”. Marlière, who teaches French and European Politics at London College University, says that Hollande is hoping to gain international legitimacy in the UK capital. “He wants to be seen as the next president of France and in order to do that he needs to be taken seriously by the City, the UK business world, and the British media.” That doesn’t, however, mean he'll be kissing up to the City, Marlière says. “If anything, Hollande will reiterate what he laid out in his manifesto. If he comes to the City he will play to the French audience, and show that he can be critical of the City, which will garner him support back at home among the left wing.” Cameron willing to make new friends? Relations between French President Nicolas Sarkozy and UK Prime Minister David Cameron reached their lowest point yet in late 2011 when the pair bickered over the eurozone crisis at a November summit. But with Hollande touted to win the French election this spring, speculation is mounting that Cameron will have an even more difficult customer on his hands. “There’s more talk in the UK regarding this French election than ever before,” FRANCE 24 London correspondent Bénédicte Paviot says. “There is certainly some concern over what effect a Hollande victory would have on relations with the government here”. Marlière believes that the Cameron government is already preparing to work with Hollande, considering his persistent lead in the polls. “Hollande will not actually be that different from Nicolas Sarkozy,” he argues. “Despite how the UK press tries to portray him, he’s a very moderate and mainstream candidate. A lot of what he says is election talk; he’s not going to go against what has been decided at [an] EU level. Cameron is probably aware of that and ready to get on with him, even if he would prefer, but only very slightly, to work with Sarkozy.”
####2012 February 01####Patrick Weil, Senior Fellow, CNRS research centre####Marc Perelman meets Patrick Weil, Senior Fellow at France's CNRS research centre. He is the editor of a new book whose title we could translate as "80 proposals that do not cost 80 billion euros". It's a patchwork of new proposals on political reform, immigration etc… for the upcoming French presidential elections.
####2012 February 02####François Hollande gets flour-bombed####Housing is becoming a major issue in the French election campaign. Yesterday, the different candidates presented their plans to make it easier to put a roof over one's head in France. But during this very meeting, François Hollande was flour-bombed, raising serious security issues for French candidates.
####2012 February 02####François gets a flouring####The French papers are worrying about the security of the presidential candidates this morning after a woman managed to cover François Hollande in flour yesterday. We're also looking at the Bettencourt saga, and fraudulent marriages.Liberation headlines on the Bettencourt saga - former budget minister Eric Woerth is set to be questioned over whether he took envelopes stuffed with cash from France's richest woman to finance Nicolas Sarkozy's election campaign in 2007. Le Parisien is worrying about François Hollande's safety after the flour incident - but its readers aren't very sympathetic. They're also looking at what they call the Great Love Fraud - marriages entered into so that one partner can get immigration papers.
####2012 February 03####Fillon defends Sarkozy's time in office####Last night's guest on prime time French TV was Prime Minister François Fillon, Nicolas Sarkozy's right-hand man. The French president has still not declared himself a candidate in this spring's presidential election. On air, Fillon managed to do a balancing act of defending Sarkozy's time in office, without offering a political platform for the future.
####2012 February 03####UMP: desperately seeking a candidate####The ruling UMP shows its mettle, even as the grass-roots face the cold shoulder in the wintry weather. Meanwhile, the far-right candidate, Marine Le Pen, wants to be treated like any other party...as well as wanting special treatment. And we meet a scientist who fears that changes to the funding of research risk causing a brain-drain.Programme prepared by Lise Barcellini, Luke Brown, Charlène Pelé, Gary Schimmel-Bauer and Nathalie Tourret.
####2012 February 07####Sarkozy and the far-right####The focus of the French election campaign suddenly shifts from the economy to racism and national identity. But was it a wise move on the part of the outgoing president to back his interior minister’s controversial remarks on the relative values of civilisations?Charles GIVADINOVITCH. UMP Progressive Youth Movement; Bruno GOLLNISCH. National Front party; Stephen CLARKE. Journalist and author; Gilles IVALDI. Researcher, CNRS (from Nice), co-author www.500signatures.net blog Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Christopher Davis, Pauline Heilmann. Watch the second part.
####2012 February 07####Sarkozy and the far-right (part 2)####The focus of the French election campaign suddenly shifts from the economy to racism and national identity. But was it a wise move on the part of the outgoing president to back his interior minister’s controversial remarks on the relative values of civilisations?Charles GIVADINOVITCH. UMP Progressive Youth Movement; Bruno GOLLNISCH. National Front party; Stephen CLARKE. Journalist and author; Gilles IVALDI. Researcher, CNRS (from Nice), www.500signatures.net blog Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Christopher Davis, Pauline Heilmann. Watch the first part.
####2012 February 07####'Nicolas and Angela - this time it's serious'####It's the Sarkozy-Merkel love-in that makes all the front pages here in France - after their big joint TV interview last night. But is Angela Merkel's support really an electoral boon for Nicolas Sarkozy?Le Figaro congratulates Nicolas Sarkozy and Angela Merkel on their pact to stop François Hollande - saying his programme would put the euro in danger. Unfortunately, it's exactly those measures that Germany doesn't like - like the 35-hour working week - that are popular with French voters, as l'Humanité points out. Le Parisien has a poll Hollande will be happy to read - putting him ahead of Sarkozy even if Marine le Pen does not run. Libération focuses further to the left - with a front page interview with far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon.
####2012 February 08####The battle of the populists####It's the row in Parliament that's on all France's front pages - yesterday the whole government walked out for the first time in a century, after a Socialist MP effectively accused the interior minister of Nazism.Le Figaro defends Claude Guéant - saying he's just defending the traditional values of the Republic, which the left does not seem to understand. Libération says he's got off with his offensive comment scot-free - while Le Parisien looks at the man who caused all the trouble by accusing him of Nazism. Le Monde is looking at the working class voters that it's widely assumed this rhetoric is aimed at - saying they're being courted on both right and left with similar ideas. And L'Humanité focuses on a massacre 50 years ago today - of Communist protesters against the war in Algeria, by Paris police.
####2012 February 08####Where are all the women in French politics?####Only 19% of French MPs are women, and neither main party is running a female candidate - so are they being marginalised in politics? We look at whether gender still makes a difference to French voters.
####2012 February 08####Campaign tunes: increasingly devoid of meaning?####MEDIAWATCH FRANCE, Wed. 8/2/2011: We take a look at the Socialists' campaign tune and compare to similar efforts in previous decades. Are campaign jingles becoming increasingly meaningless? Also, journalists play the guessing game as to when Sarkozy will announce his candidacy for re-election. Finally, a French female minister gets "catty"...
####2012 February 09####Controversy over Islam and Nazism: campaign turns nasty####Political tempers flare in France as a clash over civilizations turns into a dogfight in parliament. Also on the show: Nicolas Sarkozy has at least one vote for him, at least in theory. German Chancellor Angela Merkel has made no secret that she wants him re-elected - an unlikely bold move by the normally über-cautious leader.On the set: Jean-Marc GONIN, Senior Writer, Le Figaro Magazine. Philip TURLE, Journalist, RFI.
####2012 February 09####Sarkozy ally charged with influence peddling####French judges on Wednesday filed preliminary charges against former Labour Minister Eric Woerth for "passive influence peddling" in a scandal linked to the management of the fortune of France's richest woman Liliane Bettencourt.AP - Three investigating judges have filed preliminary charges against former Labor Minister Eric Woerth for “passive influence peddling” after becoming ensnared in a scandal involving the fortunes of the L’Oreal heiress. Election skeletons: who the presidential hopefuls don’t want you to see Woerth is suspected of obtaining the Legion of Honor, France’s highest award, for the man who managed the fortunes of Liliane Bettencourt. That gesture was allegedly in return for getting his wife hired by a company seeing to her holdings.  Woerth denies any wrongdoing. He was forced to step down in 2010 after being linked to a larger probe into the suspected hidden financing of President Nicolas Sarkozy’s 2007 campaign - which also connected to Bettencourt’s fortune.  
####2012 February 09####Sarkozy sets stage for re-election bid####French President Nicolas Sarkozy set the stage for his re-election promises in an interview, saying he intends to hold a referendum on whether unemployed people receiving benefits should be allowed to turn down jobs.REUTERS - French President Nicolas Sarkozy is setting the stage for his re-election bid by airing plans to overhaul the education system and make the jobless work for benefits, and is expected to announce his candidacy as early as next week. In an interview with Le Figaro Magazine to be published on Saturday, Sarkozy unveils the broad outlines of the electoral platform he will deploy against Socialist front-runner Francois Hollande before the April-May presidential election. With jobless claims at a 12-year high, Sarkozy takes what is bound to be a controversial approach to voters’ biggest concern by promising to tighten access to unemployment benefits so that the jobless can no longer decline offers or training after a certain period out of work. His plans could spark outrage among a wide swathe of the electorate, and if unions oppose them Sarkozy would resort to a referendum—a tool which he has avoided throughout his presidency, stung by previous defeats. “After a five-year term, I am more convinced than ever before that we need to reward working and heighten our regard for it,” he said. “This is not just saying that you need to work in order to succeed, but that work is a value in and of itself, necessary for individuals to define themselves and for the cohesion of society.” Sarkozy - who according to an OpinionWay poll on Thursday would lose to Hollande by 10 percentage points in an election runoff - also tried to counter Hollande’s plans for hiring teachers by offering a reform of the schools system. At the same time, eyeing a volatile bloc of far-right votes currently backing Marine Le Pen, who may not be able to gather enough sponsorships to run, he insisted on limits on immigration and repeated his opposition to gay marriage.   BLATANT ELECTIONEERING? Although few in the French political establishment doubt that Sarkozy will seek re-election, there has been intense speculation about when he will make his candidacy official. Political opponents, who point out that Sarkozy has effectively been campaigning for months as president, criticised his appearance on television this week with German Chancellor Angela Merkel as blatant electioneering. Once he becomes a candidate, he will have to respect laws that limit the amount of time presidential candidates are allowed to appear on television and speak on the radio. Presidential aides have said he will try to announce his candidacy close to the March 16 deadline, hoping to occupy the media spotlight for as long as possible in the favourable role of crisis manager tackling the European debt crisis. But Sarkozy has changed tack. A series of media reports, including an article in Le Monde, have said he could declare as early as next Thursday and follow up quickly with a television appearance and a big political rally. Other media point to Feb. 24, when they say Sarkozy’s conservative UMP party has booked a sports arena in Paris, as the date to kick off a “lightning campaign” before the first round of voting on April 22. If he declares on Feb. 16, he will have little more than two months to unveil a detailed platform, claw back voters from Hollande and recover from the lowest popularity rating of any president since 1958 so close to an election. The bleak economic outlook will not help, with jobless claims at a 12-year high, growth prospects growing dimmer, and France struggling at the centre of a European debt crisis that has caused a new groundswell of euro-scepticism. To help win back voters—many of whom express deep disappointment with the man they helped to elect in 2007 by 53 to 47 percent against Socialist candidate Segolene Royal—he has re-hired the architect of his first presidential bid, Emmanuelle Mignon. Known for her toughness and Christian beliefs, Mignon is credited with inspiring Sarkozy’s visits to the Vatican and speeches about France’s Christian values—controversial moves in a country with a deeply secular tradition.  
####2012 February 09####Sarkozy ally Woerth under formal investigation in campaign finance scandal####Former Labour Minister Eric Woerth was placed under formal investigation Thursday for his involvement in a complicated campaign finance scandal that comes inauspiciously close to the expected re-election bid of French President Nicolas Sarkozy.REUTERS - Former French budget minister Eric Woerth was placed under formal investigation for illicit party financing on Thursday, reigniting a scandal that could weaken President Nicolas Sarkozy weeks before a presidential election. The accusations, which emerged in 2010 as part of an inquiry into the affairs of L’Oreal heiress Liliane Bettencourt, relate to an alleged cash payment of 150,000 euros which Woerth is said to have received from the billionairess to fund Sarkozy’s 2007 election campaign. Woerth had been placed under investigation on Wednesday over accusations he used his influence to secure a Legion d’Honneur for the man who managed Bettencourt’s fortune, after Woerth’s wife was hired by the family’s holding company. “These facts have never existed, M. Woerth is outraged that he is being asked to account for something that never happened,” Woerth’s lawyer Jean-Yves Leborgne told Reuters on Thursday. Woerth, who was questioned for nine hours on Thursday, has always denied wrongdoing, calling the allegations slander. In France, the opening of an official investigation does not automatically lead to charges but suggests investigators believe their preliminary findings give them enough grounds to consider Woerth a suspect. The Bettencourt affair began as a family dispute in 2007 after Bettencourt’s daughter accused French photographer Francois-Marie Banier of extorting vast sums from her mother. The affair ballooned into a political scandal in the summer of 2010 after allegations emerged that Woerth had accepted 150,000 euros from the wealthy heiress for the ruling UMP party. Election skeletons: who the presidential hopefuls don’t want you to see The payment, allegedly made via Bettencourt’s wealth manager Patrice de Maistre, would be illegal in France as political donations are limited to 7,600 euros for parties and 4,600 euros for individual candidates. Woerth, who was UMP party treasurer during the period in question, left Sarkozy’s government at the end of 2010 after months of fending off accusations of influence-peddling. However, the announcement of a new inquiry risks reopening the political scandal at a difficult time for the president, just days before he is expected to announce he is seeking a second term in April and May’s two-round vote. Sarkozy is already facing an uphill struggle for re-election, with Socialist candidate Francois Hollande leading in the polls and far-right Marine Le Pen snapping at his heels for second place. The Woerth case is another awkward diversion from campaigning after a series of probes and accusations linked to his allies. Sarkozy’s office in late August denied allegations published in a national newspaper he was handed cash by Bettencourt for his 2007 election campaign. Bettencourt, France’s richest woman, is the largest shareholder in cosmetics group L’Oreal.  
####2012 February 10####Far-left candidate Poutou: 'It wasn’t my idea to run for president!'####This week, we meet France’s least ambitious presidential candidate, discuss how the Franco-German couple is developing into a major campaign theme, and meet a man whose job is at risk due to the dire economic situation.Programme prepared by Lise Barcellini, Luke Brown, Sarah ELZAS, Narimène Laouadi, Gary Schimmel-Bauer and Nathalie Tourret.
####2012 February 10####The World This Week - Feburary 10th, 2012 (part 2)####After a solid week of shelling in Homs, the international community is still scrambling for a plan. Also, Nicolas Sarkozy’s re-election bid steers right and Britain marks milestones for Queen Elizabeth and literary (and journalism) giant Charles Dickens.Anne-Elisabeth MOUTET, Columnist, The Sunday Telegraph; Dave CLARK, Deputy Paris Bureau Chief, AFP news agency; George KAZOLIAS, Senior Producer, AITV-RFO; Harold HYMAN, Franco-American journalist, specialised in international and cultural affairs, BFM TV. Watch the first part.
####2012 February 13####'Sarkozy: a candidate this week'####FRENCH PAPERS, Mon. 13/02/12. According to Le Figaro, Nicolas Sarkozy will announce he’s running for a second term between now and the end of the week. The right-leaning paper says that although on paper everything is against him, he will still win the election. The Communist paper L’Humanité says Sarkozy is pandering to potential voters from the far-right.Get the France 24 press review on your iPhone or become a fan on Facebook.   Some articles from today’s French press review:   Le Figaro: “A headstrong candidate”  Le Parisien: “The Elysée: ready for battle”   L’Humanité: “Extreme right”  La Croix: “Common values”  France Soir: “Hollande: indifférent”  Libération: “Bayrou wants to fill the void”
####2012 February 13####John Gaffney, Co-Director of the Aston Centre for Europe, Aston University####Marc Perelman meets John Gaffney, author of "Political Leadership in France: from Charles de Gaulle to Nicolas Sarkozy". The book looks at how the presidency functions in France under the Fifth Republic. John Gaffney explains how Nicolas Sarkozy is different from his predecessors, and gives us his opinion on whether he can be re-elected.
####2012 February 13####Sarkozy to announce candidacy ‘this week’####Experts anticipate that French President Nicolas Sarkozy will this week announce his candidacy to run in this spring’s presidential election. Why has he held off until now?French leader Nicolas Sarkozy is widely expected to announce his candidature for May’s presidential election in the coming days. On the surface, things are not looking good for incumbent president, with opinion polls showing Sarkozy trailing some ten points behind 57-year-old Socialist rival Francois Hollande. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call Hollande was nominated as the Socialist Party’s candidate in a new US-style primary back in October 2011. The primary proved popular in France and fixed him in the mind of the French electorate as the main opposition candidate. Not so Sarkozy, who has resolutely avoided all mention of his own candidacy to the frustration of his opponents, keen to let battle begin. Some have accused him of holding off until the last minute so that he could make maximum use of his presidential exposure as an unofficial platform to promote himself. Once he declares himself candidate, however, Sarkozy will have to separate his official line as president from that of presidential hopeful. Candidates are given strictly equal air time during the official campaigning period which ends on April 20. Rallying the conservatives With less than three months to go before the election, Sarkozy needs to begin getting his house in order now if he is to have any chance of winning, according to Mathieu Doiret, head of research at French pollster IPSOS. “Sarkozy doesn’t really have any choice,” he told FRANCE 24. “He’s been holding out because he wanted and needed to be the president, rather than a presidential candidate, for as long as possible. “But he is trailing behind Hollande in the polls and you can’t catch up a lead like that in a few weeks - he needs three months to do it. He has no choice than to put his candidacy forward now.” FRANCE 2012 ON THE SET FRANCE 2012 Parliamentary Elections: After the presidency, the fight for the lower house Sarkozy certainly has much to achieve in the next three months. Doiret anticipates that the centre-right leader’s only hope for success will be to rally the country’s conservative voters behind him, something he achieved before the 2007 election. But over the past five years, Sarkozy has been losing that critical support. Rising prices and concerns over immigration have turned many of his supporters to other conservative candidates, particularly Marine Le Pen’s far-right National Front. Referendums on foreigners and the unemployed The last year has seen the government harden its stance on conservative issues including immigration. To drive this home, Sarkozy told right-leaning daily Le Figaro Saturday that he wanted to hold referendums on unemployment rules and the status of foreigners living in France – inviting accusations from the left of populism. “Sarkozy absolutely needs to get a critical mass of conservative support,” said Doiret. “If he can get 25% of the population intending to vote for him, then he will be in a position to fight Hollande effectively in the second round of the election. “He has everything to fight for, and despite Hollande’s current poll lead, he is still in with a chance.” This view was shared by Prime Minister and Sarkozy ally Francois Fillon, who told left-leaning daily Le Monde on Monday that the game was wide open. “Nothing is a foregone conclusion,” he said. “The polls and the commentaries will change completely in the three weeks before the election once the public has seen the candidates go head to head. “Nicolas Sarkozy has a very good understanding of the feeling in the country. He has a direct connection with the French people and in the course of the campaign he will find the right words and the right way to address the people directly.” Fillon also rejected the charge that the campaign was drifting ever more to the right following Sarkozy’s promise to hold referendums on contentious issues like unemployment and the status of foreigners. “If politicians fail to address these issues, the president has every right to circumvent the deadlock by asking the people what they think,” he said.  
####2012 February 14####Sarkozy expected to launch re-election bid on French TV####French President Nicolas Sarkozy will officially announce that he is running for a second term on prime-time French TV on Wednesday, his office has announced. Sarkozy lags behind Socialist François Hollande in polls ahead of the April 22 vote.REUTERS - French President Nicolas Sarkozy will appear on television news on Wednesday evening, where he is expected to formally declare his candidacy for a second term. The centre-right president, who badly lags Socialist challenger Francois Hollande in opinion polls, launched his Twitter feed with the news that he had accepted an invitation to appear on TF1's evening news at 1900 GMT. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call With the long-awaited announcement, Sarkozy will formally enter the race, although his opponents say he has been campaigning for months. He is expected to flesh out his campaign platform in a speech to an audience of several thousand in the Mediterranean port city of Marseille on Sunday. "Now the real campaign starts," French Foreign Minister and close Sarkozy ally Alain Juppe told France Info radio on Wednesday. "We will have the real debate and see the weaknesses of the Socialist candidate." Despite polls showing Hollande would beat Sarkozy by 15 points in a May 6 runoff between the two, the president's camp is confident he can narrow the gap before the April 22 first round. Socialist Party leader Martine Aubry described Sarkozy entering the campaign as a non-event. "The French aren't interested in this sort of communication ... they want us to deal with their problems," she said on French television station LCI. The election comes at a critical time for Europe, with France battling alongside Germany to overcome a euro zone debt crisis that has stifled growth across the region. Credit rating agency Moody's warned late on Monday that it could follow Standard & Poor's and remove France's AAA rating. Finance Minister Francois Baroin has promised to stick to measures designed to promote growth and cut France's deficit.  
####2012 February 14####Presidential election: former presidents, new candidates####Nicolas Sarkozy is expected to announce his candidacy for a second term as president this week. We look at why it is so important to get the timing and delivery right. Then, we find out more about some of the lesser-known presidential hopefuls. Finally, it was supposed to be the Year of Mexico in France last year but a diplomatic spat meant it was cancelled. One exhibition did make it over though: a rare collection of sacred Mayan masks.
####2012 February 14####Sarkozy candidacy prompts Gallic shrug from Socialists####France’s opposition Socialists will try “not to make a big deal” of President Nicolas Sarkozy’s much anticipated announcement - expected on Wednesday - that he will run for a second term in May’s election.As France waits for incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy to announce his candidature for May’s election, the opposition Socialists have prepared their strategy for the day – don’t respond at all. Sarkozy has generated considerable hype by refusing to pin down exactly when he will declare his intention to run for a second term. The French president is expected to announce his candidacy on Wednesday evening, ending months of speculation. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call Officially, the Socialist Party (PS) wants to respond by trivialising the event as much as possible. “We have just got to let it happen and not try to make a big deal of it,” PS candidate Francois Hollande reportedly told his aides last week. Hollande has pointedly refused to reschedule is second campaign meeting in the northern city of Rouen, which will also take place on Wednesday evening. PS party spokesman Benoit Hamon said on Monday that the PS would respond “with tranquillity and serenity” to Sarkozy's announcement. “It’s going to be a routine announcement,” he told a press conference. “When Nicolas Sarkozy speaks, there are no flashing red lights, it’s just another mundane event.” Announcement will have ‘big impact’ Hamon also used the event to criticise Sarkozy for “playing games of suspense” with the electorate, and accused him of maintaining his non-candidate status in order to use public funds to promote himself (once he has declared, Sarkozy will have limited cash and air time for his campaign). But if Hollande wants a blasé response from his party, behind closed doors there is recognition “that Nicolas Sarkozy’s declaration is going to have a very big impact,” a PS insider told Europe 1 radio on Tuesday, who added that the party was doing everything possible for a co-ordinated and considered response. Party members will recall that former PS candidate Segolene Royal was visiting a farm when Sarkozy announced his candidacy in 2007 – an image that many considered an un-presidential “faux pas” that got her doomed campaign off to a muddy start. And Hollande has been preparing a comprehensive response for a while – his book “Changer de Destin” (‘Changing Destiny’), whose contents remain a closely guarded secret, has been in the pipeline for some months and is due for release on Monday.  
####2012 February 15####Sarkozy enters the race####Way behind in the polls, Nicolas Sarkozy touts "a strong France" as he officially declares his candidacy for a second term. But will the race be about values, the economy or a personality that's earned him the nickname of "Speedy Sarko"?Hélène CONWAY MOURET, Socialist Senator; Charles GIVADINOVICH, UMP party; Patrick JARREAU, Politics Desk Editor, Le Monde newspaper; Nicolas BAYGERT, Communications Consultant (from Brussels) Jocelyn EVANS, Professor of Politics, University of Salford (from Salford, England, UK). Watch part two. Produced by Christopher Davis, Julie Dungelhoeff, Pauline Heilmann, Mary Colombel, Anelise Borges
####2012 February 15####Sarkozy enters the race (part 2)####Way behind in the polls, Nicolas Sarkozy touts "a strong France" as he officially declares his candidacy for a second term. But will the race be about values, the economy or a personality that's earned him the nickname of "Speedy Sarko"?Hélène CONWAY MOURET, Socialist Senator; Charles GIVADINOVICH, UMP party; Patrick JARREAU, Politics Desk Editor, Le Monde newspaper; Nicolas BAYGERT, Communications Consultant (from Brussels) Jocelyn EVANS, Professor of Politics, University of Salford (from Salford, England, UK). Watch part one Produced by Christopher Davis, Julie Dungelhoeff, Pauline Heilmann, Mary Colombel, Anelise Borges
####2012 February 15####And they're (finally) off!####President Sarkozy makes his big leap into the campaign fray today, announcing he's running for a second term. We have a look at the key figures in his campaign team, and his strategy for winning back the French.
####2012 February 15####Facebook accused of helping Sarkozy's online makeover####French President Nicolas Sarkozy has a brand new Facebook profile. On Wednesday afternoon, before he had even announced his candidacy, some of his opponents were openly accusing Facebook of deliberately helping him boost his online image.On Wednesday afternoon French President Nicolas Sarkozy had yet to announce his official candidacy for the forthcoming presidential election.   But his online campaign profile was shaping up nicely. His brand new Twitter feed @NicolasSarkozy confirmed that he will appear live on TF1 television at 8pm Paris time (GMT+1) on Wednesday. Until now, the president’s aides had used the Elysée presidential palace Twitter account exclusively. His new Twitter feed is just one more confirmation – if that were needed - that he is on the cusp of launching himself as Sarkozy the candidate alongside Sarkozy the president. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call The president also has an all-new Facebook profile and has the distinction of being the only French politician to use the social networking site’s new “Timeline” format, which was introduced in September 2011 and allows web users to trace users’ history on the site. Sarkozy’s Facebook Timeline is extensive and exhaustive. It includes some 700 pictures that date back all the way to his birth. And while giving him a more modern look than his opponents, it is also revealing in what the president has chosen to omit from his online history. Gone is all mention of a controversial 2007 state visit from then-Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi, as well as a notorious Dakar speech in July 2007 in which he asserted that “the African man has never really entered history.” Much of the president’s controversial private life has also been excised. His ex-wife Cecelia Attias, who was Sarkozy’s “special councillor” while he was interior minister, is nowhere to be found. Neither is there any mention of his whirlwind romance and marriage to Italian singer and former model Carla Bruni. Also missing are his more controversial outbursts, including a 2006 promise to “sand-blast” France’s restive suburbs, and a vulgar and widely publicised comment at a 2008 agricultural show when he told a heckler “casse toi pauvre con”, which essentially means “get lost jerk” in the mildest of translations. Facebook accused of helping out It is perfectly normal that a presidential candidate would only want the electorate to only see his “best bits”, although the new Sarkozy image is still a far cry from his 2007 campaign, in which his private life was placed centre stage. KEY ISSUES FOR 2012 FRANCE Senators seek review of law on genocide denial FRANCE Presidential hopefuls cash in on France AAA loss FRANCE French union worker’s trial becomes hot election issue But Facebook itself is facing accusations that it sent a dedicated team to meet with the president’s men in order to perfect his online image. Soon after Sarkozy’s Timeline went live on February 10, Facebook’s content director for France Julien Codorniou tweeted that the presidential Timeline was “quite impressive”. Weekly news magazine L’Express picked up on this to speculate that Facebook was hoping to gain attention for the new Timeline function by advising the president. The new Facebook tool is being rolled out to all the site’s users and is not universally popular. “The sheer amount of work that has gone into [Sarkozy’s] Facebook profile is even more surprising than the quality of the work,” Benoit Thielin told L’Express (Thielin is an online image expert who managed the 2007 web campaign of failed presidential candidate Segolene Royal). “It can only have been done over a period of months by a team of dedicated professionals.” The main opposition Socialists were more direct. The party’s digital campaign manager Fleur Peulin said in an email obtained by L’Express, that Julien Codorniou had “informally assisted Nicolas Sarkozy's campaign team so as to create a Timeline on his fan page” and that she "can not approve of a company taking sides in a presidential campaign.” Facebook has denied all accusations of being politically partisan. “We are regularly in contact with numerous public figures, including politicians, for information and advice on how to use our products and services,” a company spokesman said in an email. “We give them that help but we remain completely impartial.”   
####2012 February 15####President Sarkozy officially declares re-election bid####After weeks of suspense, French President Nicolas Sarkozy officially declared his bid for re-election on Wednesday, saying he wanted to “give French people a voice” and highlighting jobs and the economy as two of his main campaign priorities.After months of “will he” or “won’t he”, French President Nicolas Sarkozy officially announced his intention to run for a second term in the country’s upcoming presidential elections during an appearance on prime-time television Wednesday. When asked point-blank if he planned to run for the presidency, Sarkozy responded bluntly, “Yes, I am [a] candidate for the presidential election”. Sarkozy wasted no time addressing the state of France’s economy amid Europe’s intensifying sovereign debt-crisis, a hot-button issue in the upcoming elections. ‘A strong France’ “France can’t pretend that the crisis doesn’t exist, that Europe doesn’t exist, that the world doesn’t exist”, Sarkozy said. Sarkozy also underscored his desire to give power back to the French people, saying “One of the central ideas to my plan is to give the French people a voice through a referendum”. With unemployment at a 12-year high of 9.3 percent, Sarkozy said he was considering a referendum on unemployment benefits and jobs training, saying further reforms are needed in order to maintain the country’s “way of life”. “When one is unemployed, one has rights and responsibilities…I want to protect and help the jobless, but above all I want to give them the means to work. I want to put jobs at the centre of everything”, Sarkozy hammered home. “The French must understand that if France is strong they will be protected,” Sarkozy said, riffing off his leaked campaign slogan, “A strong France”. Sarkozy also hinted at an apology for unfulfilled promises during his first-term, promising change if the electorate votes to give him a second shot at the presidency. “If the French trust me and give me another five years in office, these five years will not be the same as the first”, Sarkozy said. Sarkozy has teased the French public with his reluctance to declare his bid for re-election ahead of the country’s first round of voting on April 22, causing widespread speculation as to when and where he would finally do it. Wednesday’s announcement on French television TF1’s evening news means that the centre-right president has formally entered the race against rival Socialist Party (PS) candidate François Hollande. “Now the real campaign starts”, French Foreign Minister and Sarkozy ally Alain Juppé told French radio station France Info earlier on Wednesday. “We will have a real debate and see the weaknesses of the Socialist candidate”. ‘It’s just another mundane event’, says PS Sarkozy’s declaration coincided with Hollande’s visit to France’s northwestern town of Rouen, where the socialist candidate played down Sarkozy’s declaration as no big surprise. “We’ve known this news for weeks, we’ve known it since forever. The truth is that the president-candidate has been a candidate for the past five years. He had barely been elected when he began campaigning”, Hollande said. Hollande’s response was consistent with the PS’ tepid interest in Sarkozy’s impending candidacy for the past several weeks. “When Nicolas Sarkozy speaks, there are no flashing red lights, it’s just another mundane event”, PS party spokesman Benoit Hamon said in a press conference on Monday. Hamon also took the opportunity to accuse Sarkozy of “playing games of suspense” with the public, and manipulating his undeclared status over the past few months to promote himself using public financing. As an official candidate, Sarkozy is now subject to limited air time and funds for his campaign. Yet behind closed doors, the PS apparently holds a very different view of the potential consequences of Sarkozy’s candidacy. In an interview on Tuesday with Europe 1 radio, a PS insider said “Nicolas Sarkozy’s declaration is going to have a very big impact”, adding that the party was working hard to come up with a coordinated and measured response. Sarkozy’s re-election bid comes at a critical moment, as France grapples with the fallout from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and struggles to shore up its own economy. For the past several months, polls have consistently put Sarkozy behind Hollande, even forecasting that he could lose to the socialist candidate in the country’s May 6 runoff. Yet it looks as though the incumbent’s fortunes are possibly changing. According to a February 13th study by French polling centre IPSOS, Sarkozy’s popularity has inched upwards by two points, while Hollande’s has ebbed by four, narrowing the gap between the two candidates. Sarkozy is expected to reveal his manifesto in France’s port city of Marseille on Sunday.
####2012 February 16####Sarkozy the candidate####In his first campaign speech, Nicolas Sarkozy comes out swinging: he brands his main rival an inveterate liar and suggests referendums to crack down on perceived unemployment slackers and illegal immigrants.Benjamin LANCAR, Chairman, UMP youth league (from Annecy, France); Axelle LEMAIRE, Socialist candidate for parliament, French abroad, Northern Europe district (from London); Marc PERELMAN, France 24 Politics Editor; Sofia BOURATSIS, Journalist; Evelyne JOSLAIN, Member of the British Conservatives. Produced by Julie Dungelhoeff, Pauline Heilmann, Mary Colombel, Anelise Borges.
####2012 February 16####'La France forte'####Nicolas Sarkozy has launched his re-election campaign - but what's his strategy, how does his team hope to win reluctant voters back, and what are the chances of it working?
####2012 February 16####Sarkozy's campaign poster goes viral...with some twists!####MEDIAWATCH FRANCE, Thurs. 16/2/2012: Ever quick to pick apart official slogans and posters, internet users in France have uploaded dozens of take-offs of Sarkozy's official campaign poster with the slogan "La France forte" (A strong France). Also, a US correspondent in Paris uses quiches as a metaphor for the French elections. Finally, animal rights group PETA releases a controversial ad that critics say promotes domestic violence.
####2012 February 16####Pledging a 'strong France', Sarkozy vies for re-election####After weeks of playing up the suspense around his bid for a second term in office, French President Nicolas Sarkozy has unveiled a well-groomed re-election strategy, hitting the campaign trail with a pledge to defend a "strong France".Putting an end to French politics' worst-kept secret, President Nicolas Sarkozy burst into France's presidential campaign this week with a new slogan, a brand new website and Twitter account, and a busy schedule of rallies across France. The incumbent was due to hold his first campaign meeting in the Alpine city of Annecy on Thursday, a day after he officially announced on French television that he was a candidate in the country’s April 22 poll. After lunch with local officials, and an afternoon stop at a cheese factory that makes the pungent Reblochon cheese, Sarkozy was scheduled to address supporters and members of his ruling UMP party. He was expected to unveil his new election manifesto at a major party rally in the city of Marseille on Sunday. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call While there was no surprise about his intention to run for a second term, Sarkozy’s announcement was a key moment in an election contest already well underway. Jean-Pierre Bel, the president of the Socialist-led French Senate, joked it would only have been a shock if the incumbent had announced he was not a candidate. France’s opposition Socialist Party, whose candidate François Hollande is leading opinion polls, had complained that Sarkozy was exploiting official visits to campaign. “I think it is good that we have entered a period where things will be clearer, where the rules of the game will be clearer,” Bell told the AFP news agency, “Until now, [Sarkozy] has allowed himself many privileges.” Marine Le Pen, the far-right candidate who has closely trailed Sarkozy in voter intention surveys, responded to the French president’s announcement with the aggressive criticism that has been characteristic of her campaign. “Nicolas Sarkozy is trying to make us forget his scandalous track record on unemployment, sinking purchasing power, rising insecurity and the explosion of immigration,” Le Pen told reporters after the televised announcement, “I thought he was very insincere.” Carrying the brunt of the blame for France’s economic troubles and facing low approval ratings, the French president hopes to quickly gain ground over challengers. His battle to remain at the Elysée Palace received an early boost from former ministers Hervé Morin and Christine Boutin – both presidential hopefuls who quit the race this week to endorse the incumbent. 'Strong France' Despite previous questions concerning Sarkozy’s intentions and rumours of a lack of enthusiasm for his potential bid, a well-planned and carefully coordinated re-election strategy was on display on Thursday. His team simultaneously revealed the candidate’s campaign slogan and website a few hours after he made his candidacy official. The websites “lafranceforte.fr” and “NS2012.fr” went online on Wednesday night, emphasizing the catchphrase "La France forte", or "Strong France". Curiously, the same campaign slogan was used in 1975 by former centrist president Valéry Giscard d'Estaing. Earlier in the day a new Twitter account invited users to watch Sarkozy’s primetime interview on TF1 television, in which the president confirmed he was a candidate. Sarkozy's arrival on the popular micro-blogging website was hailed on the other side of the Atlantic by the White House, which posted the message “Welcome to Twitter @NicolasSarkozy” with a picture of US President Barack Obama in a meeting with the French president in Washington. 'Loss from world stage' Few French editorialists offered a positive review of Sarkozy’s television appearance, with many focusing on what they described as the daunting task ahead of the incumbent. “This entrance into the presidential race is probably [Sarkozy’s] last chance to win back public opinion. All other attempts in recent weeks have been absolutely unsuccessful,” wrote the left-leaning Liberation daily. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 First Obama, now Hollande stresses fiscal fairness Le Figaro, a right-wing newspaper widely viewed as close to Sarkozy’s government, was more forgiving: “It will be necessary to review [France’s] competitiveness, its social services system, its public spending – everything that François Hollande does not speak about and that Nicolas Sarkozy will lay on the table before the first round [of the election].” British papers were also quick to weigh in on the election after Sarkozy’s announcement. "Britain has had many disputes with President Sarkozy, not least his obsession with the introduction of a financial transactions tax," The Times wrote, before praising the French leader's strong response to the unrest in Libya last year. "For all his flaws, Mr Sarkozy would be a loss from the world stage,” the daily concluded. The left-of-centre Independent newspaper echoed sentiments in the French press, highlighting that despite being "a powerful campaigner", Sarkozy faced “the greatest uphill battle of any incumbent French leader of recent times.”
####2012 February 16####National Assembly approves Sarkozy's tax reform####The French lower house of parliament on Tuesday approved President Nicolas Sarkozy's proposal to cut companies' welfare contributions and raise VAT sales tax from 19.6% to 21.2%. Sarkozy's reforms are aimed at economic stimulus.REUTERS - French President Nicolas Sarkozy’s plans to cut companies’ social welfare contributions has won backing in the lower house of parliament even though a key panel had earlier rejected the reform aimed at reviving the competitiveness of French firms. Trailing his Socialist challenger Francois Hollande in the polls by a wide margin, Sarkozy aims to cast himself as best placed to help drag France out of an economic slump. The reform is unpopular with voters as the cut in companies’ welfare contributions would be financed by raising the VAT sales tax to 21.2 percent from 19.6 percent. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call The National Assembly’s finance commission rejected the plan on Monday as the opposition was able to muster a majority, with many lawmakers in Sarkozy’s conservative UMP absent. Prime Minister Francois Fillon later rallied UMP lawmakers and the house approved the measure as part of a bill updating the 2012 budget which would create the tax reform from Oct. 1. The Assembly, where the UMP has a majority, still has to vote on the bill in its entirety before it can go to the opposition-dominated Senate. Even if the Senate rejects it there, the Assembly has the last word in a final vote. Sarkozy’s government says the reform would create 100,000 jobs and save companies 13 billion euros, but it is deeply contested by the Left as unfairly increasing the burden on all taxpayers. Hollande has promised to repeal it if elected. Sarkozy officially declared his candidacy on Monday, setting the stage for a tough battle for a second term in the two-round April 22-May 6 election with unemployment claims at a 12-year high and growth anaemic.  
####2012 February 18####Sarkozy opens re-election campaign headquarters####French President Nicolas Sarkozy opened his re-election campaign headquarters in a residential area of Paris on Saturday. He emphasised the office's modest size, in a dig at the larger headquarters of his opponent, Socialist Francois Hollande.AP - President Nicolas Sarkozy has opened his campaign headquarters in a residential section of Paris, touting the office’s small size. Sarkozy finally announced Wednesday that he would seek a second term in April and May elections, but he has his work cut out for him: For months, he’s trailed the Socialist candidate, Francois Hollande, in polls. The president used even his choice of headquarters to take a dig at his opponent, saying only those who want to shut themselves in their offices choose large ones. The office has an inconspicuos facade and is smaller than Hollande’s, which is in one of the capital’s chicest neighborhoods. Supporters flocked to the office Saturday morning, some shouting “We are going to win!” In a brief speech, Sarkozy vowed to run an open, relaxed campaign. Supporters waited impatiently for French President Nicolas Sarkozy to arrive at his campaign headquarters in the 15th district of Paris. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) Upon his arrival, Sarkozy, escorted by his security team, made his way through the crowd. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) UMP supporters called out “Sarkozy, president!” and “UMP is going to win!” as passers-by looked on. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) The offices are rather austere: white walls and beige or blue carpeting. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) Sarkozy’s office. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) To decorate his office, the president brought certain items from the Elysee Palace – like the tricoloured mini-Eiffel Tower. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) Portraits of the president alongside other political leaders or French citizens are displayed around the headquarters. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, the spokesperson for Sarkozy’s re-election campaign, in her office. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) Various campaign slogans are displayed on white walls. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) The press room. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) Campaign workers take to the web to get out Sarkozy’s message. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux) A small kitchen area for "when we work late and need coffee", one campaign worker confided. (Photo: Charlotte Boitiaux)  
####2012 February 20####French press pounces on Sarkozy’s patriotic campaign speech####Many French editorialists were scathing of President Nicolas Sarkozy’s opening campaign speech at a rally in Marseille, labeling it as divisive and disingenuous rather than substantive. France24.com takes a closer look.French President Nicolas Sarkozy entered full-throttle campaign mode in the southern city of Marseille on Sunday, defending his record and slamming Socialist opponent Francois Hollande in a fiery speech with strong nationalistic undertones. But with the unemployment rate at 10 percent and the economy barely growing, the opinion and Editorial pages of France’s newspapers Monday rounded on the unpopular head of state’s address as long on patriotism but short on policy. ‘The French and the anti-French’ Much of the regional press gave Sarkozy’s speech negative reviews. Michel Lepinay of Paris-Normandie, a northwestern daily, expressed disappointment that Sarkozy opted for divisive language rather than substantive solutions to France’s economic woes. “We were expecting a presentation of programmes to combat the crisis,” he wrote. “Instead, we got a war between the French and the anti-French, republicans and their enemies. That is certainly not what is going to help voters forge an opinion.” Herve Cannet of the newspaper La Nouvelle Republique du Centre-ouest was similarly unimpressed. Ironically summarising what he described as the negative message of Sarkozy’s speech, Cannet wrote: “Down with my opponent, who shall remain nameless, but who is a demagogue and liar; down with the elites…; down with all those who don’t like France.” Unsurprisingly, France’s left-wing press greeted the speech with great scepticism. Nicolas Demorand of left-wing daily Libération argued that the president was trying to “sell the idea that despite Fouquet’s [a posh Parisian restaurant Sarkozy has been known to frequent], the yacht, the tax ceiling, the billionaire friends, and the recent reduction of taxes on wealth, he is of the ‘people’”. The other aim of the speech, according to Demorand, was to “make people forget that the right, for the past 10 years, has had the power to resolve problems it’s pretending to discover two months before the election”. 'A president for celebs and jet-setters' Communist-affiliated daily L’Humanité was in agreement. “It would be so simple for a president running for re-election…if the French had no memory,” Jean-Paul Pierot quipped. “If voters could only forget that the supposed ‘candidate of the people’ is in fact a president for celebs and jet-setters.” The editorial in Catholic daily la Croix struck a less scathing tone but also warned against political rhetoric splitting the country into pro- and anti-French contingents. That “binary logic is risky” because “it is accompanied by the degradation of political discourse”, François Ernenwein wrote. A more sympathetic assessment could be found in right-leaning daily Le Figaro. Paul-Henri du Limbert wrote that the president’s speech was in some way reminiscent of his centre-right t and much-admired predecessor [former president Charles de Gaulle], who was known for lyrical declarations of love for his country and a capacity for making tough decisions. “[Sarkozy] offered a vision that demands a lot of France”, Limbert noted. “France can face adversity if it can accept sacrifices.”  
####2012 February 21####'Left and right, they're all the same'####In today's dose of French politics, I've been out canvassing with the Socialists in Paris' poorest suburbs - where they're not finding it easy to get the vote out.
####2012 February 21####Dominique Moïsi, Special adviser, French Institute for International Relations####Marc Perelman speaks to Dominique Moïsi, Special adviser at the French Institute for International Relations in Paris. With a little more than two months to go before the presidential elections, can Nicolas Sarkozy still win despite trailing his Socialist rival François Hollande in the opinion polls?
####2012 February 21####Sarkozy: from president to candidate####French President Nicolas Sarkozy is trying to reinvent his image ahead of the elections. However, will he manage to pass as a new candidate after being in power for 5 years? Next, the Emir of Qatar owns properties the length and breadth of Paris but aside from five star hotels and football clubs, the emirate is also pouring its petrol dollars into some more unexpected projects. Finally, France’s first ever test tube baby has turned thirty. We take a look at the legacy of Amandine.
####2012 February 22####Sarkozy risks ‘gay vote’ over same-sex marriage stance####In 2007, Nicolas Sarkozy promised gay voters a "civil union" equivalent to marriage. Five years later and no closer to the altar, where are his gay supporters? FRANCE 24 looks into the French gay vote, and its unexpected emergence on the far-right.Some 13 years after France adopted the PACS civil union, gay rights campaigners are calling on France’s presidential candidates to grant full marriage and parenting rights to same-sex couples, and polls suggest that it could be a strategic mistake not to hear what they have to say. Just days after he was elected in 2007, Nicolas Sarkozy made a personal address to the French gay community via a recorded video. Speaking of “the difference between lust and love”, he promised to introduce a marriage-type contract which, save for adoption, would give same-sex couples the same rights as their heterosexual counterparts. Five years on, the contract has long been forgotten. In an interview with Le Figaro Magazine this month, the president said that he had later “come to realise” that the plan had been an unconstitutional one, and that he was now decidedly against marriage equality. “In these troubled times,” he told the right-wing magazine, “we shouldn’t be clouding the image of such a crucial social institution.” FRANCE 2012: MEET THE VOTERS AUDIO BLOG Martin, 30, sales-exec from Paris: "Me voting for Sarkozy is like a turkey voting for Thanksgiving" In response, the gay rights association affiliated to Sarkozy’s UMP party announced that it could no longer support the president in his campaign for re-election this spring. “He’s gone too far this time,” Emmanuel Blanc, leader of the GayLib association, told gay magazine Têtu. “If he was trying to put off gay voters, he couldn’t have done a better job.” According to the latest polls, Sarkozy has done just that. A survey published by the CEVIPOF political research institute in January puts Sarkozy’s share of the gay vote at a measly 20%, while his Socialist rival François Hollande enjoys 53%. “We no longer find Sarkozy credible,” explains Anne Boring, a former GayLib member who voted for Sarkozy in 2007. “Over the past five years, Sarkozy’s UMP party has done nothing at all for us. The Socialists on the other hand, have advanced enormously, and are now clearly in favour of marriage equality and granting parental rights to same-sex couples with children.” ‘Rather vote far-right than Sarkozy’ Boring represents a swathe of former UMP supporters who say they feel rejected by the ruling party’s failure to act on marriage inequality. But not all of them have shifted left. According to the CEVIPOF poll, over 17% of gay voters plan to vote for far-right candidate Marine Le Pen in April, despite her party’s strict anti-gay marriage stance. In December last year, Le Pen spoke out in defence of the gay community – something previously unheard of from her traditionally homophobic party. “There are some towns in France where it’s not a good thing to be […] homosexual,” she said in a speech on Islamism. Her ploy was an obvious one, but Boring believes that some gay voters may have fallen for it. “She’s playing on people’s fears of Islam as a menace to gay rights – people who feel threatened may indeed be tempted. These are the kind of people who are not interested in getting married, they’re only concerned about public safety as a homosexual.” The PACS civil union pact France introduced the 'pacte civil de solidarité' or PACS in 1999, allowing couples (both heterosexual and homosexual) to sign a solidarity contract recognised by the state. - Inheritance rules found in marriage do not apply, and neither do parenting rights. - The couple must file joint income tax returns. - Participants are recognised by the state as “pacsé” rather than single.   Le Pen has good reason to appeal to the ‘gay vote’. Some 3.2 million of the French electorate, or 6.5%, define themselves as LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender). They outsize both practicing Muslim voters (at 5%), and practicing Catholics voters (4.5%). Gay marriage above all else? Bruno Vercken of the conservative Christian Democratic Party, which actively campaigns against same-sex marriage, argues that many gay voters will dismiss personal interests over economic concerns. “Right now, the real priority in France is not opening marriage and adoption up to homosexuals, it’s restoring confidence in the economy and politics,” he tells FRANCE 24. “I can understand the demand for gay marriage and adoption, even if I strongly disagree with it, but it is simply not the topic of the day, and there are plenty of gay people who recognise that and act on it.” Benoit, a 32-year-old sales manager from Lille, is not one of them. He voted for Sarkozy in 2007 but will not be doing so this time round. Unable to marry his long-term Colombian partner, the couple separated in 2010 after the latter was forced to leave the country. “The rules are different for heterosexual couples,” he explains. “I still hope to get married and have children in the future. And while I strongly disagree with voting for your personal interests – in 2007 I clearly voted against mine – this is an issue which affects millions of people across the country.” Benoit, like many French voters irrespective of their sexuality, says he is disappointed with Sarkozy in general. “For me, voting for Hollande means an added bonus in terms of marriage equality.” ‘An embarrassment for France’ Boring says that unlike five years ago, the ‘gay vote’ has become one that encompasses not only gay voters themselves, but also concerned heterosexual voters. “LGBT people are making sure today that their friends and family know this is a major issue for them. Besides, so many European countries and other Western states have legalised gay marriage in the past five years, it’s starting to look embarrassing for France. People are questioning why we don’t have equal marriage rights like our neighbours.” Opinion polls show steady support for same-sex marriage in France, with 64% of people saying they would like to see marriage equality between gay and straight couples, and 57% favouring parenting and adoption rights for same-sex couples. But in June 2011, UMP legislators voted en masse against a bill to legalise gay marriage, successfully blocking it from reaching the Senate or upper house. If François Hollande wins the election, he has promised to make the issue a priority. “I’m pretty optimistic,” says Boring. “This is a major point in the Socialist party’s campaign platform – saying they’re a party who wants to promote equal rights. I’m confident that Hollande will use this as something which makes him really different from Sarkozy.”
####2012 February 23####French Election: Sarkozy in attack mode####Will Nicolas Sarkozy accomplish what many believe is now "mission impossible", as he lags behind his Socialist rival François Hollande in the polls? Meanwhile, this week, France's constitutional court issued a highly awaited ruling on the rules whereby one can be a presidential candidate - much to the dismay of the far-right National Front.On the set: Philip TURLE, Journalist, RFI Jean-Marc GONIN, Senior Writer, Le Figaro Magazine.
####2012 February 23####Fact-checking blogs turn up heat on French candidates####As French presidential hopefuls jostle their way to the April 22 poll, a handful of political fact-checking websites are shaking up traditional journalism in France.The day after French President Nicolas Sarkozy set the tone for his re-election bid with a fiery speech in the southern city of Marseille, newspaper editorialists weighed in on the themes and tone of the incumbent’s address in predictable fashion. In contrast, Les Décodeurs, a popular blog run by Lemonde.fr, took a very different approach: check the truth in Sarkozy’s claims. The blog focused on two precise attacks Sarkozy unleashed on his election rival, Socialist Party candidate François Hollande. The first charge was that Hollande was ready to eliminate nuclear industry jobs in exchange for electoral gains, while the second maintained that if Hollande backtracked on Sarkozy’s 2010 retirement reforms, France’s pension system would collapse within a decade. The French Les Décodeurs blog verified President Nicolas Sarkozy's claim that rival candidate François Hollande governing plans will make the pensions' system collapse within ten years. "MOSTLY FALSE", the blog decided. After scrutinizing an election pact between the opposition Socialists and their Green Party allies as well as paging through studies on retirement costs from specialised research institutions, Décodeurs decided to stamp a bright green “MOSTLY TRUE” label on Sarkozy’s first claim and an accusatory red “MOSTLY FALSE” on the second. While the fact-checking exercise may sound like standard knee-jerk journalism, Décodeurs belongs to a relatively novel and exciting trend in French media. Décodeurs, Désintox and Les Pinocchios are part of a growing list of websites that are answering a new demand for rapid fact-finding and changing the way this year’s presidential campaign is being fought. According to Alice Antheaume, deputy director of the journalism school at Sciences Po university in Paris, the “fact-checking” phenomenon is evident in the catchy names and designs of several like-minded projects cropping up on the web. However, she insists, the craze is not so much about verifying facts—already a well-established practice in France—but rather the speed at which journalists can now confirm or reject a politician’s word. “What has changed is the push to fact-check in almost real time,” Antheuaume said. Presidential campaign boost While French journalists began breaking down and verifying figures from political speeches in late 2009 and 2010 on the blogs Décodeurs and Désintox, these projects at first struggled to get attention. In a Nov 2010 interview, the authors of both blogs told the online news website OWNI they lacked the staff and that managers were unwilling to invest more money in their initiatives. Sciences Po’s Antheuaume explains that interest in rapid-fire fact-checking soared in 2011 during the opposition Socialist Party’s primaries to pick a presidential nominee. “During the first TV debates, live blogs began to verify the claims made by the candidates,” she said. “Now that that presidential campaign is in full swing, the practice has accelerated. Now journalists check if campaign promises were already made, or if they contradict previous promises, or if they are feasible.” Nicolas Patte, a data journalist with OWNI, said France’s fact-checking bent draws inspiration from PolitiFact.com, the Pulitzer Prize winning website put out by the Tampa Bay Times. In association with French iTele, OWNI recently launched the Véritomètre website. Like PolitiFact, Véritomètre does more than simply submitting politician’s claims to a lie detector test, going beyond to measure candidates’ overall credibility and comparing results. OWNI’s Patte agreed that the French 2012 presidential contest was a major catalyst for the fact-checking bent in France. “One year ago we started thinking how we could enhance our coverage of the election. We felt the obligation to re-create [PolitiFact] as a tool for French voters,” he said. “We wanted to give them a new and transparent way of judging the candidates.” The French Désintox website compares the presidential candidates on their Bobaromètre, or fib-o-metre, tool. The Véritomètre went online just one week after the Désixtox blog launched its own Bobaromètre, or Fib-o-metre. While the Véritomètre gives a grade for credibility and the Bobaromètre for dishonesty, the two web tools share the same objective. So far, however, the rankings of the two online truth thermometers are not in sync. For example, the Véritomètre says far-right candidate Marine Le Pen is the least honest, while President Sarkozy tops the Bobaromètre’s fib chart. The direct repercussions of these and other fact-checking initiatives is difficult to measure, but there is anecdotal evidence they are influencing this year’s election. “Journalists at Le Monde have told us that the candidates are suddenly being more attentive to the figures they quote,” said Sciences Po’s Antheuaume. “[Journalists] hope that with time there will be a real change.” Whether candidates will strive to bring up their own truth “grades” remains to be seen, but they have taken notice of the new accuracy watchdogs. Hollande’s campaign website has jumped on the bandwagon, recently shining a spotlight on figures from France’s INSEE national statistics agency—which contradict Sarkozy’s push to raise retail taxes. Demand and supply Since OWNI’s Véritomètre went online February 17, it has attracted hundreds of thousands of unique visitors, according to Patte. The data journalist said that his and competing fact-checking tools were responding to as-yet-unmet expectations among the public. “We knew this was going to be an important election and if we placed our bets on this project it was because we felt a need among voters.” Dominique Strauss-Kahn describes liason with NY hotel maid as a 'mistake' To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. By FRANCE 24 Many in France criticize what they call the mainstream press’ softball approach with political leaders. The easy questions dangled in front of the disgraced former IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn last September during his first television interview is one a recent example. The interview drew ire from viewers and analysts alike, not just because it failed to satisfy the intrigue surrounding his legal battle in New York, but because it was conducted by journalist Claire Chazal, a close fried of Strauss-Kahn’s wife, Anne Sinclair. But some news sources, especially those that exist exclusively online, seem eager to take the gloves off. Freed from the traditional ties to power, and avidly competing for readership, “pure play” (internet-only) news sites like Mediapart and Rue89 have been challenging political leaders and traditional journalism head on. France’s fact-digging rush may just be the next outpost in this shifting media landscape. Main image from OWNI and iTele’s Veritomètre website
####2012 February 23####Presidential Race: Sarkozy takes the gloves off####There are just over two months to go before round one of the presidential elections here in France. As things stand, the verdict is crystal clear: the next French president will be a Socialist by the name of François Hollande. He is riding high in the polls, out in front of outgoing president Nicolas Sarkozy. But Sarkozy certainly relishes a challenge. Can he pull it off?On the set: Mark Deen, Journalist, Bloomberg News Christian Makarian, Managing editor, L'Express.
####2012 February 24####Leftist candidate takes far-right fight to prime time####Far-left presidential candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon (right) has made attacking far-right leader Marine Le Pen a central part of his campaign, and the strategy could be paying off.French television audiences were party to a strange spectacle on Thursday night, when the usually combative far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen refused to speak directly to her far-left rival Jean-Luc Mélenchon during a long and tense appearance on French public television. Le Pen, who opinion polls predict will place third in France’s April 22 presidential ballot, said she would not debate with a “fake candidate” whose only strategy was to throw “violent insults” at her. Le Pen’s silence allowed Mélenchon to drill her on several issues, and to repeat running claims that she was scared of him. Jeu, set et match ? À vous de jouer maintenant > bit.ly/yHqe4W !! Please RT ! #dpda #LePenAPeur— Mélenchon présidons! (@melenchon2012) February 23, 2012 Leftist presidential candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon continues his attack on far-right rival Marine Le Pen on Twitter after their showdown television. "Game, set, match? >Now the ball is in your court," he wrote. It was the third televised encounter in the past year between the far-right and far-left French leaders – tête-à-têtes in which Le Pen has generally fared poorly. “Game, set, match?” Mélenchon, a presidential hopeful for the Left Front coalition, later bragged on Thursday night to followers on the micro-blogging website Twitter. Mélenchon had good reasons to gloat. He has been steadily gaining ground in public opinion, rising from around 3.5% support in March 2011 to as much as 9% this month. His success could have a lot to with his decision to openly confront the far-right National Front party on the presidential campaign trail –a strategy dubbed the “Front vs. Front fight” by French commentators. On Thursday night’s television showdown, Le Pen enumerated the insults Mélenchon has thrown her way, which included “fascist”, “a blind bat”, and “half-demented”. “That still leaves you one good half!” Mélenchon shot back, drawing laughter from audience members on the show’s soundstage. “He is really at the forefront of the fight against Marine Le Pen,” explained Eric Bonnet, director of opinion studies at the French polling agency BVA. “Leftist voters appreciate his combative style and the fact he represents a clear break from business-as-usual.” Bonnet added that while Mélenchon has known some progress in terms of voter intentions–around 4 percentage points in the past five months–his approval rating among leftists has literally exploded from 30 to 60% during the same period. Forging the Left Front Mélenchon has been in politics for four decades, but has never been more recognizable on the national stage as he is now. A former junior minister for professional training and senator from the Essone region near Paris, Mélenchon currently holds a post as a European MP. He was a member of the main opposition Socialist Party, but broke ranks to create his own Left Party (PG) in 2008. The Left Party has thus failed to attract significant numbers of members, but has known relative success by forging an alliance with France’s Communist Party (PCF). The affiliation has armed Mélenchon with an established political machine and the Communist party members necessary to wage a credible national campaign. The Left Front has also been a profitable partnership for the PCF, a once powerful party that has been largely discredited for the past twenty years. In 2007 the Communist presidential candidate Marie-George Buffet collected a meager 1.34% of votes in the ballot's first round. A thorn in Hollande's side? According BVA’s Bonnet, a small rise in Mélenchon’s poll numbers can be attributed to doubts about Socialist candidate François Hollande. “Some leftist voters are expressing concern that Hollande is not solidly on the left ideologically,” Bonnet explained, but added that this trend was “still extremely weak”. Mélenchon’s growing visibility on the campaign trail could become an obstacle for Hollande - who is still the election’s frontrunner, according to opinion polls. Last week, the far-left candidate ruffled Socialist feathers with a letter calling on Socialist MP’s to vote against the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) in parliament. The Socialist Party is deeply divided over the ESM, a permanent rescue funding programme awaiting approval from the eurozone member states, and Hollande has avoided speaking about it. Mélenchon’s letter served to highlight those divisions and prove he was further left than Hollande. However, Bonnet does not think that Mélenchon’s theatrics against Le Pen or his solid leftist position can destabilize Hollande. “So far the anti-Sarkozy sentiment that is pushing leftist voters to back Hollande is still much stronger than Mélenchon’s popularity,” Bonnet said. Mélenchon has also publicly declared that he would endorse Hollande, if his Socialist rival were to advance to the second round.
####2012 February 27####The art of French bashing####MEDIAWATCH FRANCE, Mon. 27/2/2012: "The Artist" scoops five Oscars and sparks some French-bashing in the media. Also, Sarkozy and Hollande each accuse other of being cozier with France's top bosses.
####2012 February 28####Hollande vows 75% tax rate for France's top earners####Socialist Party presidential candidate Francois Hollande has set his sights on taxing the rich with plans to introduce a 75 percent tax rate for France's top earners. Hollande said it would be a “patriotic” move to revive France’s ailing economy.AFP - The Socialist tipped to become France's next president took aim at the wealthy Tuesday with plans to slap a 75 percent tax rate on top earners. Francois Hollande said it was simply a case of "patriotism to accept to pay extra tax to get the country back on its feet again" and reverse the policies of President Nicolas Sarkozy that he said favoured the rich. "It is sending out a signal, a message of social cohesion," he said during a tour of France's annual agricultural fair in Paris. Taxing the rich has become a hot issue in an election campaign marked by worry over the economic crisis and rising unemployment, which now stands at nearly three million. Hollande, who opinion polls consistently put ahead of Sarkozy in the race to win the presidential elections in April and May, unveiled the 75 percent tax rate plan late Monday on a television show. "I have seen the considerable progression of the pay of the CAC 40 (benchmark French stock market index) bosses. Two million euros (a year) on average. How can we accept that?" he asked. Hollande said he would slap the tax rate on all French people who earned more than a million euros ($1.3 million) a year. He had earlier said he wanted to impose a rate of 45 percent on incomes above 150,000 euros a year. He had said in his first campaign rally late last month that the "enemy" was "the world of finance". The new plan sparked fierce criticism and some ridicule from Sarkozy's UMP party and from other presidential candidates who are all vying to show that they have the magic formula to pull France out of economic crisis. Hollande "invents a new tax every week without ever proposing the smallest saving", said Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse, while Foreign Minister Alain Juppe denounced the plan as "fiscal confiscation". "And why not a 100 percent rate?" was the sarcastic reaction from Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front who polls put in third position in the presidential race. When Sarkozy came to power in 2007, he introduced a "tax shield" that capped tax at 50 percent of all income. The move was slammed by the opposition as a gift to the rich. Sarkozy also cut inheritance and other taxes on the rich early in his mandate. Sarkozy has been campaigning with a call for the French people to stand with him against a defeatist elite and to defend the traditional values of a strong France. The latest opinion poll, published Tuesday by IFOP, said he had narrowed Hollande's lead. It said the Socialist would take 28.5 percent of the vote in the first round, while the president stood at 27 percent. The second round would however see Hollande romping home with 56.5 percent against Sarkozy's 43.5 percent. Le Pen was in third position in the first round with 17 percent, the poll said. France will vote in the first round of the presidential election on April 22, followed by a second-round run-off on May 6.
####2012 February 29####Can Hollande turn London’s French voters Socialist?####Presidential frontrunner François Hollande made a campaign stop in the UK capital on Wednesday in the hope of seducing its booming French community. A London-based professor of French politics explains why the Socialist candidate might be in luck.French presidential hopeful François Hollande arrived in London on Wednesday as part of his overseas campaign trail. Meeting British opposition leader Ed Miliband for roast beef and yorkshire puddings, the Socialist candidate then went on to make a speech at King’s College London, where he was expected to reach out to the UK’s 400,000 French residents. Philippe Marlière, a London resident for the past 18 years and professor of French politics at University College London, tells FRANCE 24 why this year the Socialist candidate could be in luck among the traditionally right-leaning French community in London. FRANCE 24: Are French expatriates in London expected to vote for Sarkozy or Hollande? Philippe Marlière: London-based French voters have traditionally voted rightwing. But over the past 20 years, there has been a shift in the make-up of the expatriates here. It’s no longer rich diplomats and businessmen flying in for a few years. There are increasing numbers of ordinary people – young; lower middle class; students, bar and restaurant workers, teachers, private and public service workers; people with very modest incomes. This is a population of which many permanently live in London, some hold dual nationality, their children go to school here, so they’re very much integrated. Because of their social and economic background, these people are not going to vote for Sarkozy. 'PARIS-ON-THAMES' The French government puts the number of French nationals living in the UK (not including Scotland) at between 350,000 and 400,000. Some 55% of those live in London, which is considered France’s ‘sixth city’ in terms of numbers. French locals call their adopted capital ‘Paris on Thames’. www.gouvernement.fr Even in 2007, Sarkozy only just won the UK vote [he beat Socialist candidate Ségolène Royal with 53% to her 47% - see map below]. It wasn’t the kind of emphatic victory of yesteryear. So this time round we’re expecting an even closer result in London, and perhaps even a Socialist win. F24: What do London-based expatriates expect from their cross-channel president?   Marlière: Who is president in France has almost no affect on us in terms of policy. But symbolically it means a lot. When you live abroad you still care about your country and who is representing your country. And the mood here is that Sarkozy is doing a poor job. People are fed up with him – the vulgarity, the bling bling, his policies that favour the rich. There is a profound sense of social justice among the French, and they feel that Sarkozy has let them down in that sense.   While Hollande is certainly not the president they’ve been dreaming of – even among leftwing voters – there’s a real sense of ‘anybody but Sarkozy’ right now. F24: Why didn't British Prime Minister David Cameron meet with Hollande? Marlière: Cameron is playing wait-and-see. He doesn’t want to jeopardise his relationship with Sarkozy by meeting Hollande. And if Hollande wins, which is looking increasingly likely, then his decision will be easily justified. He will simply congratulate Hollande on election day and offer to meet with him as soon as possible. All leaders do that [on recent visits to Germany, Italy and Spain Hollande did not meet Angela Merkel, Mario Monti or Mariano Rajoy either]. It’s not considered an affront. It’s simply being prudent.
####2012 February 29####Guillaume Ledit, journalist####The battle for the French presidential election is raging, both on the ground and on the web. Marjorie Paillon speaks to Guillaume Ledit, journalist at Owni.eu, an online fact checker, about the role of social networking in the presidential race.
####2012 March 04####European leaders ganging up on Hollande, report says####German weekly news magazine Der Spiegel has published a report accusing four conservative leaders of European countries of deliberately shunning French Socialist presidential hopeful François Hollande.A cabal of conservative European leaders is deliberately shunning French Socialist presidential candidate François Hollande, according to a report published Monday in German weekly Der Spiegel that was promptly denied by the German government. The magazine says that German Chancellor Angela Merkel (who has openly supported incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy), Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, British Prime Minister David Cameron and their Spanish counterpart Mariano Rajoy have made an agreement not to meet Hollande in the run-up to May’s presidential election. The German government was swift to deny Der Spiegel’s allegations on Sunday. But in an interview published the same day by German daily Die Welt, the country’s Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle called for an end to his country’s meddling in the French political process. Urging German politicians to “show restraint,” he said that “there should be no doubt that Germany will work well with any government chosen by the French people.” Hollande ‘less than impressed’ Hollande, who is leading Sarkozy in the polls, told France 3 television on Sunday that he was “less than impressed” by the Spiegel report, should it turn out to be true. “It is up to the French people to decide their future,” he said. “Leaders of other European countries, for whom I have great respect, have no business weighing in on an election that is for the people of France to decide.” According to Der Spiegel, the conservative European leaders are shunning Hollande because of his plans to renegotiate the treaty on tighter budget discipline for the euro zone, which was worked out to save the fragile monetary bloc from future debt crises. Even the UK’s David Cameron – whose country did not sign the treaty – is accused of deliberately avoiding contact with Hollande. Cameron pointedly refused to meet the Socialist presidential hopeful while he was visiting London last week to woo the British capital’s substantial French population. Downing Street said it was “protocol” not to meet candidates during the election period. However, the British prime minister was happy to give his full support to Sarkozy earlier in February in an interview with right-leaning Le Figaro, in which he said Sarkozy was “a brave politician” with “great leadership qualities”. ‘Lack of credibility’ On Sunday Sarkozy’s team hit back at Hollande, saying that any effort to shun him was not down to a back-room deal – but was because he lacked credibility as a candidate in the eyes of world leaders. Sarkozy’s spokeswoman Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet told Canal+ television on Sunday that any unwillingness among leaders to meet him was down to his own hostility towards them. She said: “He complains that Angela Merkel doesn’t want to speak with him. Of course she won’t want to speak with him after he has gone to Germany and called for her to be voted out of power.” Kosciusko-Morizet, who is known in France as “NKM”, claimed Hollande’s ostracism was a direct result of him “behaving like a playground bully, saying ‘if I’m elected I will seek to renegotiate the treaty to save the euro zone that took you weeks to agree’”.
####2012 March 06####Most voters already decided about Sarkozy, poll says####Three-quarters of French voters say they have already made up their minds whether or not they will cast ballots for current president Nicolas Sarkozy when he seeks re-election in April, according to a poll published Monday.REUTERS - Three-quarters of French voters have already made up their minds about Nicolas Sarkozy and will not be swayed by the election campaign, according to a poll released on Monday, suggesting the president may struggle to close a wide poll lag. The survey by pollster Viavoice for left-leaning daily Liberation said that 74 percent of those questioned said they had already decided their opinion about the conservative leader. Only one-quarter of those were Sarkozy supporters. The Viavoice survey said that those voters open to changing their minds were mostly from the far right and centre right. Most polls show that while Sarkozy would finish second in an April 22 first round, he would lose a May 6 runoff against Socialist front runner Francois Hollande by at least 12 percentage points. "The electoral equation appears very complicated for Sarkozy candidacy," said Francois Miquet-Marty, associate director of Viavoice. "He has not so far succeeded in shifting the balance of political power and has only a weak potential for winning people over." Though Sarkozy received a poll bounce after launching his campaign in mid-February, recent polls have shown him losing ground. Hollande launched a proposal last week to tax those earning more than 1 million euros a year at 75 percent, and polls suggested two-third of voters supported the idea. A survey released on Monday by pollster BVA for Le Parisien-Aujourd'hui en France newspaper showed that Hollande would win the second round runoff by 59 percent to Sarkozy's 41, increasing his lead by three percentage points since mid-February to 18 percentage points. The latest polls A Sunday poll from LH2-Yahoo! forecast that Hollande would win the May 6 second round run-off with 58 percent of the vote to Sarkozy's 42, a margin of victory three points wider than in the same poll last month. An earlier poll published Friday by the Ifop institute pointed in the same direction, with the gap between Hollande and Sarkozy in the first round of polling stretching to 3.5 percent, up from one percent the week before. (Source: AFP)   The Viavoice poll, conducted by telephone with a sample of 1,001 people, also showed 53 percent of those questioned thought the launch of Sarkozy's campaign had fallen flat. Most of those questioned said Hollande was the candidate more in tune with the concerns of ordinary French voters – 56 percent to Sarkozy's 26 percent. But the incumbent president scored much more highly than his rival in terms of statesmanship and ability to shine on the international stage. The issue of Hollande's international credentials have jumped to the front of the campaign in recent days. While Sarkozy's camp dismissed a weekend German press report that European leaders agreed to shun Hollande because of his plan to renegotiate a fiscal pact signed by 25 EU leaders, it has used the article as evidence of Hollande's inexperience and lack of diplomatic skill.  
####2012 March 06####Sarkozy: 'We have too many foreigners in France'####French president Nicolas Sarkozy said in a television interview Tuesday that there are too many immigrants in France, a situation that he claimed jeopardised their integration into French society.AFP - President Nicolas Sarkozy said Tuesday that there are too many immigrants in France, defending his re-election campaign promise to cut the number of new arrivals in half. "Our system of integration is working more and more badly, because we have too many foreigners on our territory and we can no longer manage to find them accommodation, a job, a school," Sarkozy said. Sarkozy has been accused of tacking to the right in the run up to the April 22 first round of the French presidential election in order to recruit voters tempted by anti-immigrant candidate Marine Le Pen's platform. But, in a television interview, he insisted that while immigration could remain "a boon" for France in many areas, it must be controlled more tightly through tougher residency qualifications for newcomers. "Over the five year term I think that to restart the process of integration in good conditions, we must divide by two the number of people that we welcome, that's to say to pass from 180,000 per year to 100,000," he said. Sarkozy also announced new plans to limit some welfare benefit payments currently available to immigrant workers to those who have enjoyed residency for ten years and have worked for five of those.
####2012 March 06####Sarkozy says he hopes for Obama re-election####French president Nicolas Sarkozy said in a television interview Tuesday that he hoped US President Barack Obama would be re-elected. Sarkozy also promised to launch a French Middle East initiative in the event of his own re-election.AFP - France's President Nicolas Sarkozy, himself campaigning for re-election, said Tuesday he hoped his US counterpart Barack Obama would be returned to office in this year's American election. In a television interview, Sarkozy said that he hoped to launch a French initiative to bring peace to the Middle East if he is re-elected in May, and expressed the hope that Obama would be able to do the same. "I regret that Europe has not been more determined," he said, referring to the stalled international attempts to revive the frozen peace process between Israel and its Palestinian neighbours. "There is also a presidential election in the United States. President Obama, who is a very great president, won't take the initiative before he's re-elected -- and I hope he will be -- but there's a place for France." The centre-right French president will compete in a first round of voting on April 22 and will probably face a run-off on May 6. Obama, a Democrat, will run for re-election in November and his first term expires in January. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Record number of women and minorities in new French parliament Sarkozy said his first foreign visit if re-elected would be to France's close EU ally Germany, but in "next few days" afterwards he would go to Israel and the Palestinian territories to try to restart the peace process. Obama and Sarkozy reportedly had a tense relationship in the early stages of their presidencies, but they appear to have patched up ties and gave an unusual joint television interview at the G20 summit in Cannes in November.
####2012 March 07####Sarkozy is sorry####Nicolas Sarkozy locked horns with former Socialist Prime Minister Laurent Fabius on prime-time TV last night - announcing new policies on immigration, but also apologising for some of his least popular moments.
####2012 March 07####Left slams Sarkozy’s ‘too many foreigners’ claim####French President Nicolas Sarkozy on Tuesday said he would halve immigration if he was re-elected. The opposition Socialists branded the announcement “irresponsible” and “blatant electioneering” in the face of a resurgent National Front.France’s opposition Socialists on Wednesday blasted President Nicolas Sarkozy’s plan to halve immigration as “irresponsible, impossible and bad politics.” Sarkozy told France 2 television on Tuesday that there were “too many foreigners in France” and that if he won the upcoming presidential election he would reduce the number of immigrants allowed into the country from just under 200,000 to 100,000 a year. He also said he wanted to toughen naturalisation rules and make it harder for newcomers to the country to claim benefits. “It was blatant electioneering,” said Mireille Le Corre, immigration spokeswoman for Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande. Le Corre told FRANCE 24 that Sarkozy’s “improvised” announcement was an obvious attempt to impress conservative voters who had drifted towards the far-right National Front’s Marine Le Pen. Sarkozy is polling at 26% for the first round of the election, compared to Hollande’s 29.5%, according to the IFOP. Marine Le Pen has 16%. ‘Impossible to achieve’ FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call “Such a vast reduction would be impossible to enforce and would result in universal condemnation of France,” said Le Corre. “To achieve it would be an attack on people’s fundamental rights and would see France hauled before European courts and vilified in other countries. It would be simply impossible to achieve. “That he pulled this figure out of the hat on national television shows that he is desperate. It has no bearing on targets announced by the interior minister last month, which shows that Sarkozy’s campaign is unstable and foundering.” Even the National Front, a party that is overtly anti-immigration, was surprised by Sarkozy’s announcement. Marine le Pen’s campaign spokesman Wallerand de Saint Juste told FRANCE 24 that such a huge change in direction on such an important electoral issue was “totally surreal”. He said: “Sarkozy has never had the courage to tackle immigration head on because he knows he will be accused of racism. It’s a desperate gesture in the face of Marine Le Pen's high support. “Such an extraordinary and stunning announcement so close to the election shows complete contempt for the French people.” The National Front’s policy on immigration quotas is much more extreme than Sarkozy’s. The party wants to reduce the number of foreigners moving to France to just 10,000 a year. According to official figures, the number of immigrants coming into the country rose consistently from 1995 to reach 214,000 people in 2004, a time when Nicolas Sarkozy was France’s interior minister and responsible for immigration. The figure fell to 200,000 the following year and has hovered around this level ever since, throughout Sarkozy’s presidency from 2007 until now.  
####2012 March 08####Nicolas Sarkozy: the far-right strategy####Halal meat, immigration, crime... If there was ever any doubt over Nicolas Sarkozy's election strategy, there remains little now. Centrist voters will have to wait, since for now, Sarkozy's eyes are on the far-right.On the set: Philip Turle, Journalist, RFI; Jean-Marc Gonin, Senior writer, Le Figaro Magazine.
####2012 March 08####Sarkozy to quit politics if he loses re-election bid####French President Nicolas Sarkozy said Thursday that he would leave politics if he loses his re-election bid, and pointed out that his Socialist challenger, who leads in polls, has a worrying "dearth of experience" for such troubled times.REUTERS - French President Nicolas Sarkozy said on Thursday he would fight with everything he has to win a second term but will bow out of politics if he loses an April-May election. Sarkozy, who is badly lagging Socialist challenger Francois Hollande in opinion polls six weeks before the first round of voting, said Hollande's lack of ministerial or international experience was a problem at a time of economic turmoil. "I worry when I look at the Socialist candidate's programme ... and I worry about this dearth of experience in such a troubled period. But if the French people do not put their faith in me, do you really think I would carry on in politics? The answer is no," Sarkozy told RMC radio. Hollande widened his lead slightly this week, advancing 2 points to 30 percent support for the April 22 first round, while Sarkozy gained only 1 point to 28 percent. The survey, by pollster CSA, saw Hollande beating Sarkozy by 56 percent to 44 percent in a May 6 runoff. "I will fight with all my strength to win your confidence, to protect and lead you and build a strong France, but if that is not your choice I will bow out, that's the way it is, and I will have had a great life in politics," he said. Sarkozy said on a three-hour televised debate on Tuesday that he was not discouraged by his weak poll scores and that one his characteristics is that he never gives up. But French media are reporting that his campaign team is starting to worry that Sarkozy's efforts to overcome a widespread dislike of his personal style and anger over three years of economic gloom are not working. Campaign spokeswoman Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet - who was lambasted as out of touch after she was unable to tell a radio presenter the price of a Paris metro ticket - lamented this week that the race had descended into distracting polemic. Presidential spokesman Frank Louvrier has been quoted by the daily Les Echos as saying that if Sarkozy's camp did not keep the focus squarely on debating ideas they were "sure to lose". Setbacks Sarkozy launched his campaign in mid-February, several weeks after Hollande, and has opted for a strategy of unveiling his ideas - such as a new minimum tax on company profits, making the unemployed sign up to training to get their benefits and holding policy referendums - week by week. After a strong start that saw him trim the gap with Hollande by a few points, he suffered setbacks in his second week, including being jostled by left-wing militants while out on the campaign trail, and has now lost his initial bounce. Meanwhile Hollande has consolidated his lead position after announcing a surprise 75 percent tax rate on annual income above 1 million euros, a move nearly two in three voters support. On Thursday's radio show, Sarkozy proposed a new household fund for women abandoned by fathers of their children, a new renovation programme for city suburbs and said he would cut the number of lawmakers by 10 to 15 percent to trim public spending. Sarkozy, whose main focus is on structural reform and tighter immigration rules, is expected to give his first real campaign overview at a big campaign rally on Sunday in the Paris suburb of Villepinte.  
####2012 March 08####Halal Meat Controversy : A political food fight####If you had never heard the word "Halal" and you live in France, you probably are now familiar with the Muslim way of slaugtering meat. It has indeed become a focal point of the presidential campaign.On the set : Jonas HADDAD, national Delegate, UMP's youth movement and Hélène CONWAY MOURET, senator with the Socialist Party  
####2012 March 09####Sarkozy struggling to turn French election tide####President Nicolas Sarkozy is hoping to battle back from negative opinion polls in his quest for a second term in office, but his election campaign has thus far struggled to gain traction with the public.Just six weeks before the first round of France’s presidential election, President Nicolas Sarkozy is struggling to convince voters to entrust him with a second mandate. Slumping in opinion polls and facing increasingly louder criticism, the right-wing incumbent could soon join the unenviable fate of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing–the only French president since World War Two that failed to secure re-election. This week Sarkozy evoked the possibility of losing the election, saying if that occurred he would quit politics altogether. The comment on RMC radio, similar to a remark he made to journalists in January, left his supporters baffled and analysts wondering about his will to fight for another term. “I don’t think Sarkozy’s heart is in this campaign at the moment,” said John Gaffney, a professor of politics at Aston University in London, and the author of “Political Leadership in France: From Charles de Gaulle to Nicolas Sarkozy”. “I think he is a bit depressed.” According to Jérôme Sainte-Marie, director of the opinion department at the CSA polling agency, Sarkozy’s statement about quitting politics was a simple display of sincerity. “He took a chance making that kind of declaration. But he was then obligated to explain himself to supporters,” Sainte-Marie told FRANCE 24. Sarkozy allies may be getting tired of explanations and wondering when his campaign will finally take off. After building up suspense for months over whether he would run for re-election, Sarkozy enjoyed a small boost in opinion surveys after he announced his candidacy on February 15. However, recent polls showed a growing gap between Sarkozy and his Socialist Party challenger François Hollande. An opinion survey by CSA published on March 5 showed that Hollande had increased his lead over Sarkozy by 2 percentage points compared to a February poll. A similar poll by the BVA agency showed the Socialist candidate ahead by as many as 8 percentage points in the first round and 18 points in the second. “Something has been broken,” said Gilles Delafon, author of “The Reign of Contempt,” a book about diplomats disgruntled with Sarkozy. “The magnetism of the 2007 campaign doesn’t work anymore. People know about the show-off, people know about the spin... They don’t believe Sarkozy anymore.” Fishing for ideas CSA’s Sainte-Marie disputes the notion that Sarkozy has been meek on the campaign trail. “He has shown to be very combative, appearing on several different fronts, and he has already succeeded in containing the voter intentions of [far-right candidate] Marine Le Pen,” the opinion expert argued. For Saint-Marie, Sarkozy is struggling to shine on the campaign trail because he lacks the freedom he enjoyed as a first-time presidential candidate in 2007. “Wherever he goes he is constantly confronted with criticism over his first term…over failure to curb unemployment and spur economic growth,” Saint-Marie said. Other observers have noted a deficit of ideas in the incumbent’s strategy. Since he launched his re-election drive, Sarkozy has dangled a handful of policy proposals to the public, but none has gained much traction. “It is not a very modern campaign. He is jut pandering to voters he needs to win,” Anne Elizabeth Moutel, a columnist for the Sunday Telegraph, told FRANCE 24. Sarkozy’s idea of introducing a new minimum tax on company profits was mostly overlooked by the media, before being almost totally eclipsed by Hollande’s surprise plan to tax incomes above 1 million euros per year at a 75-percent rate. The president’s recent statements that France should cut by half the number of legal immigrants coming into the country and more carefully scrutinize Muslim Halal slaughterhouses have been mostly dismissed as recycled ideas that were already floated by the far-right National Front. “The French President clearly understands that he has lost the centre, the key centre that is needed to win an election. Every attempt that has been made in these last weeks has been to get the vote of the National Front. That is the only remaining idea he has to get re-elected,” said Gilles Delafon. Loss of deference Most analysts in France also pointed out that Sarkozy was the victim of his own peculiar presidential style. During his tenure he earned the mocking title of “the bling bling president” for his flashy demeanor, and was often criticized for a brashness that many in France consider to be unbecoming for a president. While campaigning in the southwestern region of Bayonne last week, Sarkozy was forced to temporarily hide out in a bar after he was mobbed by Hollande supporters and hundreds of Basque separatists who yelled insults and threw eggs. Food-throwing is not uncommon in French politics, or even the current election, but the incident in Bayonne was indicative of the public’s loss of deference for the office of the president, which many blame on Sarkozy. Seeking to capitalize on this sentiment, Hollande has campaigned on the promise to bring back “normalcy” to the Republic’s highest office. For John Gaffney, regaining the respect and confidence of the electorate is key for Sarkozy at this stage of the campaign. “He has started to do his mea culpa and talk about the reasons that made him so unpopular,” he said. “If you are going to trial with the people about that comportment, then you really have to tell them why you were like that and how you’ve changed. He hasn’t done it.” For the British scholar, French voters are uniquely passionate about elections and about their presidents. “The relationship with the office holder and the people is a very intense relationship, a very emotional relationship,” Gaffney added. “The problem with Sarkozy is that it is very emotional, but in a very negative way. That is what he has to turn around.”  
####2012 March 09####AUDIO: Green candidate Joly on 'xenophobic' election####French Green Party presidential hopeful Eva Joly tells FRANCE 24 that she despairs of the xenophobic tone of the presidential election, while important international issues remain left out of the discourse.The tone of the French presidential debate took a decidedly populist turn this week as incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy declared his intention to halve the number of immigrants allowed into the country each year. Accused of populism and of trying to attract disillusioned voters back from the far-right National Front (FN), Sarkozy's announcement follows a campaign launched in February by the FN's Marine Le Pen against Islamic halal and Jewish kosher butchering practices. One candidate for May's presidential election, the Green Party's Eva Joly, has spoken out against what she calls "latent xenophobia in the French political discourse". Joly told FRANCE 24 that the current obsession with foreigners had eclipsed more important international issues. She said: "We are not talking about Syria, we are not talking about people being killed, we are not talking about Iran. All we are talking about is the halal way of killing cows." F
####2012 March 10####European Conservatives: united against François Hollande?####According to the German news magazine Der Spiegel, Angela Merkel and her Conservative European counterparts have a secret agreement: they will not meet Nicolas Sarkozy's main challenger in France's presidential election, François Hollande. The centre-right leaders are believed to be boycotting the Socialist presidential candidate, as there is concern over Hollande's desire to renegotiate the hard-won fiscal compact.Click here to watch part 2 Christophe Robeet puts the question to two leading MEPs: Catherine TRAUTMANN, French MEP, Alliance of Socialists and Democrats; Jorgo CHATZIMARKAKIS, German MEP, Alliance of Liberals and Democrats.  Produced by Domitille Blanc.
####2012 March 12####"The shock announcement that's reset the campaign"?####Nicolas Sarkozy has announced he wants to renegotiate the Schengen treaty - to widespread surprise, accusations of populism, and, yes, some support.Les Echos explains this isn't necessarily a shocking announcement in terms of content. But it's Sarkozy's threat that France will act unilaterally of Europe: this doesn't really break with tradition. According to Le Figaro, Sarkozy is restoring France to its rightful place at the heart of Europe by trying to defend its borders - but for Libération, it's a populist improvisation. Le Parisien looks at whether candidates are practising what they preach - is their campaign merchandise "made in France"?
####2012 March 13####Who will be France’s next first lady, or gentleman?####A singer, a journalist, a housewife or a plasterer’s son: who will move into the Elysée Palace in May, and can candidates count on their partners to help them get there? FRANCE 24 takes a look at who might be France’s next first lady… or gentleman.When his second wife, Cécilia Attias, left him in October 2007, Nicolas Sarkozy became the first French president to live in the Elysée Palace without a first lady. While it didn’t take long for him to find a suitable replacement – he was married to Carla Bruni just four months later – his capricious love life saw his approval ratings plunge. SURVEY: VOTING FOR TWO "Which couple would you like to represent France?"  In 2012 - François Hollande et Valérie Trierweiler: 40% - Nicolas Sarkozy et Carla Bruni-Sarkozy : 26% - François et Elisabeth Bayrou: 19% - Marine Le Pen and Louis Aliot: 15% In 2007 - Nicolas and Cécilia Sarkozy: 37% - François and Elisabeth Bayrou: 29 % - Ségolène Royal and François Hollande: 26% - Jean-Marie and Jany Le Pen: 8% Source : IFOP/ Paris Match. Over 75% of French respondents claimed in an ELLE survey published last week that a candidate’s partner had no bearing on their choice of president. But in a separate survey carried out the same week and published in Paris Match magazine on Thursday, respondents were quick to choose their “favourite presidential couple” out of the four most likely to move into (or remain in) the Elysée Palace in May. Some 40% of respondents chose François Hollande and partner Valérie Trierweiler as their preferred presidential couple. Incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy and wife Carla Bruni-Sarkozy managed second place with 26%, but they were closely followed by François Bayrou and his wife of 40 years, Elisabeth, who is almost never seen in public, with 19%. Not far behind at 15%, Marine Le Pen and her political soul mate, Louis Aliot. FRANCE 24 takes a look at the leading candidates’ partners Valérie Trierweiler Trierweiler is a well-known political journalist in France: she has worked for weekly magazine Paris Match since 1989, and TV channel Direct 8 since 2005. Twice divorced with three children, the 47-year-old from west France has been in a relationship with Socialist candidate François Hollande since 2006, but they only publicly acknowledged their relationship in 2010. HOLLANDE & TRIERWEILER Click to enlarge. As far as the French electorate was concerned, Hollande was still with his former partner and fellow Socialist Ségolène Royal until mid-2007, when Royal faced off against Nicolas Sarkozy in the second round of the presidential election. The couple, who have four children together, said that they chose not to disclose their break-up until after the election, which Royal lost. In reality, Hollande had already begun a relationship with Trierweiler in 2006. Today, Trierweiler is an active member of Hollande’s PR team, often accompanying him to election-related events. She even has her own office at his campaign headquarters and is known to re-tweet Hollande. Since he entered into the presidential race, she gave up a political column with Paris Match to avoid conflict of interest. Questioned about her personality by Gala magazine in March, she said “I have a strong character, I’m frank and I don’t like things to go unsaid. People think me cold, but for me it’s about keeping my distance.” She told Paris Match in March that she is attracted to Hollande’s “sense of humour and intelligence”. Carla Bruni-Sarkozy THE SARKOZYS Click to enlarge. Carla Bruni-Sarkozy reached fame long before her husband, President Nicolas Sarkozy. An international supermodel in the 1990s, 44-year-old Italian-born Bruni then moved on to pop singing, before marrying newly-elected President Sarkozy in February 2008. Bruni is well known in France for having a string of high profile affairs; her ex-lovers include rock stars Mick Jagger and Eric Clapton. Not long after marrying Sarkozy she told the press that she found monogamy “terribly boring”. In March 2010 it was rumoured that Bruni was having an affair with French singer Benjamin Biolay. After several days of speculation, Bruni denied the claims. In October the following year, she gave birth to her and Sarkozy’s only child together. Bruni remained openly left-wing until 2009, when she switched allegiances to support her husband. Today, she says she is 100% behind Sarkozy, and will “help him with his campaign in whichever way he needs”. Elisabeth Bayrou THE BAYROUS Click to enlarge. Married to centrist MoDem party candidate François Bayrou, Elisabeth Bayrou, or “Babette”, as he calls her, is the only potential consort with the same surname as her partner. Married for more than 40 years, Mrs Bayrou still lives in the small town in south-west France where the couple met and were married in 1971. They are considered the only “traditional” potential first couple. The Bayrous have six grown-up children together and numerous grandchildren. Mrs Bayrou is media-shy and rarely makes public appearances with her husband. She told the press in 2002 that she disagrees with making politicians’ personal lives public. She is also openly “anti-Paris”, saying that the capital “doesn’t frighten her but doesn’t suit her either”. The French press has queried whether she would live in the Elysée Palace if her husband were to win the election. Louis Aliot LE PEN & ALIOT Click to enlarge. Long-time partner to far-right candidate Marine le Pen, 42-year-old Louis Aliot is a lawyer and amateur rugby player from the south-western city of Toulouse. He is also a regional councillor and the vice-president of Le Pen’s National Front (FN) party. The son of a plasterer, Aliot is said to have been a delinquent at school. He is divorced with two children. Not only Le Pen’s partner but also her political ally, Aliot has been a staunch far-right supporter since his troubled youth. He enjoys close ties with Le Pen’s father, former FN leader and far-right icon, Jean-Marie le Pen. Aliot and Le Pen junior rarely make romantic appearances in public due to their professional working relationship at the FN. Le Pen is twice divorced with three children.
####2012 March 13####Marine Le Pen clears hurdle to stand in election####Marine Le Pen, leader of France’s far-right National Front party, confirmed Tuesday she had gained the backing of 500 elected officials required for her to run in the forthcoming presidential elections. Le Pen currently stands third in opinion polls.REUTERS - French far-right leader Marine Le Pen has obtained the backing of 500 elected officials required to be a candidate in the April-May presidential election, she told Reuters on Tuesday, clearing a hurdle days before Friday’s filing deadline. “I have my 500 signatures and therefore I will be a candidate in the presidential election,” Le Pen said.   A failure by Le Pen to gather the requisite support by March 16 could have rocked the election race with far-right voters likely to have switched support to conservative President Nicolas Sarkozy, who is behind Socialist Francois Hollande in most opinion polls.    Le Pen - a charismatic speaker who has won a strong following since she took over the National Front leadership from her father Jean-Marie Le Pen in January 2011 - is running third in polls but with too low a score to seriously threaten Hollande or Sarkozy’s chances of facing each other in a May 6 runoff. Slideshow: the National Front's rally in Lille   The former lawyer has shifted from her party’s traditional anti-immigration focus and is campaigning for France to exit the euro and erect protectionist barriers. She will hold a news conference later on Tuesday to announce that she is formally in the race.   Sarkozy leads Hollande for the first time in an opinion poll on Tuesday for round one of the election, but is still shown losing in the second round. The Ifop/Fiducial poll put support for Sarkozy at 28.5 percent in the first round on April 22, up from 27 percent at the end of February. Support for Hollande slipped to 27 percent, from 28.5 percent, the poll showed.   Other recent polls put Hollande’s support at 28-29 percent and Sarkozy at 27-28 percent for the first round, with Le Pen at around 16 percent, having lost several points in recent weeks.  Centrist Francois Bayrou ranks fourth with 12 percent.   In January, Le Pen was just a couple of percentage points behind Sarkozy in polls, reviving memories of the 2002 election when her father made it into a second-round presidential vote against Jacques Chirac. That year, Jean-Marie Le Pen also obtained his 500th signature just before the deadline.
####2012 March 13####New poll gives Sarkozy first round election lead####An opinion poll for the first time Tuesday put French President Nicolas Sarkozy ahead of Socialist rival François Hollande for the April 22 first round of presidential elections but showed Hollande would win a run-off vote on May 6.REUTERS - President Nicolas Sarkozy leads his Socialist challenger Francois Hollande for the first time in an opinion poll on Tuesday for round one of France’s presidential election, but is still shown losing in the second round. The Ifop/Fiducial poll put support for Sarkozy at 28.5 percent in the first round on April 22, up from 27 percent at the end of February. Support for Hollande slipped to 27 percent, from 28.5 percent, the poll showed.   LATEST VOTER INTENTIONS POLITICS Presidential Election: Sarkozy and Hollande in pole position Hollande would still triumph in the May 6 runoff between the two top candidates with 54.5 percent of the vote to Sarkozy’s 45.5 percent, although the lead has narrowed with Hollande losing two percentage points and Sarkozy gaining two.   The election is becoming a clear two-horse race between Sarkozy, who promises tighter immigration controls, structural economic reforms and policy referendums, and Hollande, who is running on a tax-and-spend programme while also promising to cut the budget deficit.   The poll for various French media was carried out on Sunday and Monday after Sarkozy told his biggest rally yet that he would erect barriers to trade and immigration unless the European Union takes tougher stands.   Seeking to breathe new life into his campaign, Sarkozy said that Europe should have a law, modelled on the Buy American Act, requiring governments to buy European-made products.   He also threatened to pull France out of the European Union’s Schengen open-borders zone unless progress is made over the year on controlling immigration flows.   Hollande said Sarkozy’s move was a sign the incumbent was running out of inspiration and insisted he was focused on winning over voters and not watching every poll.   “I am not going to let myself be impressed by a poll,” Hollande said on France 3 TV, adding that nothing was certain yet.   On Monday Sarkozy sought to shed an image as a friend of the rich, promising a new tax on people who move abroad to avoid France’s high tax on the wealthy.   Sarkozy is seeking a second term despite being one of the least popular presidents in modern France, with many voters frustrated with his poor economic record and tired of his showy style.   Separately, an Opinionway survey showed Sarkozy’s approval rating slipped one point to 31 percent while his disapproval rating dropped two points to 62 percent.   It found that 50 percent of respondents thought Hollande was running the stronger campaign and 38 percent rated firebrand leftist Jean-Luc Melenchon’s most highly. Only 27 percent thought Sarkozy’s campaign was best.  
####2012 March 14####The presidential candidates you've never heard of####Today we're looking at the candidates you probably haven't heard of - including the one who would pick Marine le Pen as prime minister, the one wants to build an artificial atmosphere on Mars, and the one can't quite believe he's actually running for President.
####2012 March 14####Storm over opinion polling####It's the polls that are making France's headlines today: why are they so different from one another? And which should you believe?Le Figaro headlines on the same poll as yesterday  - the one finally showing Sarkozy ahead - which Liberation says was arrived at through dodgy polling methods. Le Parisien focuses on Sarkozy's favourite campaign topic - immigration  - saying it's actually been going down for years. Le Monde looks at the housing crisis - on the day landlords can expel their non-paying tenants, after the winter eviction ban.
####2012 March 15####The man in the middle####We're looking at the centrist presidential candidate François Bayrou, as he publishes his book. what are his policies, and can he really shake up this election?
####2012 March 15####A prophet?####In today's papers - we have a look at the electoral programme of centrist candidate François Bayrou - who's trying to paint himself as a viable alternative to the two main candidates.La Croix focuses on Catholic centrist candidate François Bayrou; who publishes a book today setting out his policy programme. Liberation looks at François Hollande's campaign tour in the south of France, in a special literary issue written by fiction writers instead of journalists.
####2012 March 15####Former PM de Villepin bows out of presidential race####Former premier Dominique de Villepin said Thursday he was dropping his bid for the French presidency after failing to get enough signatures to qualify as a candidate, a move that could benefit President Nicolas Sarkozy, a fellow conservative.REUTERS - Former Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin bowed out of France's presidential race on Thursday after failing to get the required number of official signatures to register his candidacy, a move that could benefit President Nicolas Sarkozy. Villepin, a conservative rival of Sarkozy who quit the UMP party last year to publish his own centre-right manifesto, had been credited with between 1 and 2 percent of voting intentions for the first round ballot on April 22. De Villepin - A Portrait To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. By Catherine NORRIS TRENT But speaking on French television he said it would take a miracle for him to get the signatures of 500 official sponsors by tomorrow's deadline, without which he will not be able to take part in the contest. "I'm still around 30 short," he told France 2 television in an interview. He refused to say whether he would form an alliance with another candidate, adding only: "Alliances aren't in my nature." Villepin, who was prime minister of France under former President Jacques Chirac, has a long-standing political rivalry with Sarkozy, which reached its peak in 2008 in the so-called "Clearstream" affair. The case saw Sarkozy accuse Villepin of trying to discredit him in the run-up to his 2007 election campaign by being involved in the publication of a forged list of names linking Sarkozy to secret Luxembourg accounts. Villepin was acquitted of all charges by an appeals court in September 2011.  
####2012 March 15####Sarkozy vs Hollande: the poll war####The final slate of candidates for the French presidential election will soon be known. The Constitutional Council has until Friday to receive the 500 signatures from local officials, and until Monday to certify them. But for François Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy, the war is on, and the tactics seem clear: carpet bombing for Sarkozy who is pulling out new ideas almost everyday, and staying out of trouble for Hollande.On the set: Grégory Viscusi, Reporter, Bloomberg News; Célestine Bohlen, Freelance journalist.
####2012 March 15####Presidential Election: Money time for small candidates####The French presidential race is in full swing. Sarkozy versus Hollande is the motto. But there is a second pack of contenders hoping to pull off an upset and get to the second round. One is Marine Le Pen, of course, whose father did it back in 2002. There is also François Bayrou, a centrist leader who scored 18% back in 2007 and, recently joining the group, Jean-Luc Mélenchon from the Leftist Front, a coalition comprising the Communist Party.On the set: Bruno Jeanbart, Director of Polling, Opinion Way; Raquel Garrido, International spokesperson, Left Front; Stéphane Cossé, President, Modem Paris. 
####2012 March 15####In secular France, can faith carry the election?####Do France’s Catholics, Muslim and Jews choose their president depending on their faith? A sociologist tells FRANCE 24 why Catholics flock to conservative Nicolas Sarkozy while Muslims and Jews favour Socialist François Hollande.In staunchly secular France, the common assumption is that religion is best kept out of politics. Analysts tend to look to age, profession or gender when trying to gauge voter behaviour. But according to sociologists, religion plays a key part when it comes to casting a ballot. Claude Dargent, a researcher at Sciences Po’s Cevipof institute, argues that religion is more influential in voters’ decisions than social class. At 57.2%, Catholics make up the majority of voters in France. Muslims (5%) form the second biggest religious group, followed by Protestants (2%) and Jews (0.6%). Some 30% of French voters describe themselves as having “no religion”. Claude Dargent specialises in research on French voting patterns and has published reports on both Muslim and Catholic voter behaviour ahead of next month's presidential election. FRANCE 24: The Muslim electorate has expanded massively in the past decade. How do French Muslims tend to vote? Claude Dargent: In 1997, Muslim voters in France made up only 0.7% of voters, whereas in 2007 [at the last presidential election] they had reached around 5%. This is because of the increasing numbers of Muslims on the electoral roll, most of them having been born into Muslim families of foreign origin. French Muslims are largely left-leaning – 95% of them voted for [Socialist candidate] Ségolène Royal in the first round of the 2007 presidential election, while only 5% voted for [conservative, UMP party] Nicolas Sarkozy. Around 75% of French Muslims are working class, but the French working class as a whole does not vote in the same way. In fact, they span left, right and far-right circles. Because of this comparison, we can deduce that French Muslims tend to vote left-wing because of their membership of a religious group rather than their social class. F24: What about the Catholic vote? C.D.: Practicing Catholics are five to six times more likely to vote right-wing than those who describe themselves as “without religion”. In the first round of the 2007 election, some 49% of Catholics voted for Nicolas Sarkozy, against only 12% for Ségolène Royal. According to a January survey carried out by TNS-Sofrès for [Catholic weekly] Le Pèlerin, 50% of Catholics plan to vote for Sarkozy this time round while just 13% will support [Socialist candidate] François Hollande. Interestingly, Catholics have not been won over by the far right. In 2007, [former National Front leader] Jean-Marie Le Pen experienced his lowest score among French Catholics. [Centrist candidate] François Bayrou also rates poorly among Catholics, at just 14%, despite belonging to the Christian Democrat family. F24: And Jewish voters? C.D.: It’s very difficult to assess the behaviour of Jewish voters because they make up less than 1% of the electorate, meaning that the margin for error is a potential game-changer. We do know however that French Jews are more likely to vote left than right. Although in 2007 some of them seem to have voted for Nicolas Sarkozy. But it’s difficult to know why because their vote is clouded by the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. F24: Do Protestants follow the same pattern as fellow Christians? C.D.: Historically, Protestants have tended to side with the left. But this tendency has weakened in recent years, with some rallying behind Sarkozy in the last election. According to surveys, those Protestants who did vote for him soon regretted it, particularly after the infamous ‘Fouquet’s’ episode [when Sarkozy celebrated his 2007 victory at an extravagant restaurant, earning the nickname ‘bling-bling president']. F24: Will religion play a part in the 2012 election? C.D.: The religious vote is grounded in values, which explains why it varies remarkably little. It is not new to France, the only difference now being that Islam has made it a focal issue. The "religious question" was already being discussed in 1905 when church and state were separated. By the mid-20th century, pioneer electoral sociologist André Siegfried claimed that “religion is the central question for French voters”. I think little will change in this election. We will still see the Catholic/right, Muslim/left divide, and the Protestants will probably find a suitable candidate in François Hollande. F24: Could Sarkozy suffer? C.D.: The religious question has remained an ongoing theme during Sarkozy’s five-year term. The nationwide debates he promoted on secularism and national identity played out badly for Muslims and will likely affect their choice in the polling booth. On the other hand, Sarkozy appeased religious conservatives when he said in 2007 that "the teacher will never replace the priest or the pastor" during a speech against gay marriage. MEET THE VOTERS Habiba Bigdade, 34, Socialist, Muslim "Following Islam means helping others, not helping yourself, so socialism best represents our way of life. What disgusts me most in society is social injustice. I couldn’t go against my religion when it comes to politics." Jacques Lefort, 35, UMP, Catholic "The UMP party encompasses the needs of both left-wing and right-wing Christians. Responsibility and freedom are values that the UMP respects, and these are also the values that allow companies to produce the wealth we need, to be distributed across the country." Benjamin Djiane, 35, Socialist, Jewish "There’s coherence between my political and religious beliefs. I strongly believe in social justice. In Judaism, what we earn is considered a collective wealth, which can then be shared by everybody. In society, this translates into taxes." Lucienne Buton, 75, Socialist, Catholic “When I joined the Socialists in 1975 I was viewed very suspiciously as a Catholic. My first challenge as a local councillor was housing. The [conservative] mayor thought people should have to fight to deserve a home. I’d say to him, ‘Isn’t there room for everyone?'" Mahmoud Tall, 26, UMP, Muslim “The UMP is a very honest and honourable party, because we acknowledge France is a secular state with a Christian history, and it takes time to assimilate and adjust to new cultural differences. Sarkozy is the only one to have properly addressed this problem.” Charlie Mayoul, 45, UMP, Jewish "The UMP is a bit of everything: socialism, the far right… Sarkozy has always done things for the Jewish community. He has been called the ‘president of the rich’, but he’s making efforts for small businesses." All photos: Ségolène Allamandou/ FRANCE 24.
####2012 March 16####The World this Week - March 16th, 2012####When David Cameron finds himself on a thinly-veiled Obama campaign stop in Ohio, it shows up the pitfalls of visiting other nations’ incumbents during election time. Also, Iran’s Ahmadinejad under pressure from the clerics, and a Goldman Sachs investment banker’s parting shot at the boss.Craig COPETAS, Paris-based journalist and author, "Bear Hunting with the Politburo"; Dave CLARK, Paris Deputy Bureau Chief, AFP; Régis LE SOMMIER, Deputy Editorial Director, Paris Match; Hamdam MOSTAVI, Iran desk, Le Courrier International. Watch the second part
####2012 March 16####The World this Week - March 16th, 2012 (part 2)####When David Cameron finds himself on a thinly-veiled Obama campaign stop in Ohio, it shows up the pitfalls of visiting other nations’ incumbents during election time. Also, Iran’s Ahmadinejad under pressure from the clerics, and a Goldman Sachs investment banker’s parting shot at the boss.Craig COPETAS, Paris-based journalist and author, "Bear Hunting with the Politburo"; Dave CLARK, Paris Deputy Bureau Chief, AFP; Régis LE SOMMIER, Deputy Editorial Director, Paris Match; Hamdam MOSTAVI, Iran desk, Le Courrier International; Watch the first part 
####2012 March 17####At least 10 candidates on campaign starting line####While voters waited for the official list of candidates who will be on France’s April 22 presidential election ballot, ten candidates have already told the press they had the endorsements needed to join the race.This year’s French presidential campaign begins in earnest on Monday, when the Constitutional Council will unveil the names of the candidates who gathered the 500 endorsements needed to join the race. Ten presidential hopefuls told the media on Friday they had enough backing to officially join the 2012 election. The Council said it would confirm over the weekend if each of the potential candidates fulfilled the obligation to collect a minimum of 500 signatures from mayors and elected officials. The unveiling of the names that will appear on the April 22 ballot would officially open a contest that has effectively been underway for months. The ten would-be candidates who said they presented at least 500 signatures were incumbent president Nicolas Sarkozy, François Hollande of the Socialist Party, far-right leader Marine Le Pen, centrist François Bayrou, Jean-Luc Mélenchon of the Left Front coalition, Green party candidate Eva Joly, right-wing eurosceptic Nicolas Dupont-Aignan, Trotskyites Nathalie Arthaud and Philippe Poutou, and Jacques Cheminade, who describes himself as a “left-wing Gaullist”. Former French prime minister Dominique de Villepin announced on Friday on his campaign website that he did not have enough endorsements to join the presidential race. Ecology-minded centrist Corrine Lepage said she would present only 470 signatures to election officials, but claimed that some additional endorsements for her candidacy could have been sent directly to the Council. GOODBYE CARLA? FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Who will be France’s next first lady, or gentleman? Both Villepin and Lepage complained that many mayors were unwilling to hand over their coveted signatures this year. They criticised the major political parties for putting unfair pressure on small-town mayors to withhold their endorsements. There were 12 presidential candidates on the first round ballot of France’s last election in 2007. Sixteen rivals squared off in the 2002 vote. If no candidate gets more than 50 percent of all first round ballots–by far the most likely scenario–a runoff between the two top vote getters will be held on May 6. Numbers game Half the ten candidates who said they would take part in this year’s election were struggling to gather more than 2 percent of voter intentions for the election’s first round, recent opinion polls showed. Despite the wide difference in popularity, French law stipulates that all of the official candidates would have the same visibility and airtime on media outlets starting from March 20. Socialist François Hollande had been cast as the frontrunner for months, but the incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy had caught up with the leader in recent days, polls indicated. Both men counted around 27% support among voters in the first round. French polling firms said Marine Le Pen of the anti-immigration National Front was hovering above 15%, while François Bayrou of the Democratic Movement party was on track to win 12% of ballots. Jean-Luc Mélenchon, a left-wing leader who forged an alliance the with French Communist Party for the election, had risen above the symbolic 10% mark in recent days, studies showed. In the past five weeks four well-known presidential hopefuls dropped out of the race. Social conservative Christine Boutin, centrist Hervé Morin and rural right-winger Frédérick Nihous quit to endorse Sarkozy. Left-wing nationalist Jean-Pierre Chevenement threw in the towel and eventually backed Hollande.
####2012 March 18####Left-wing candidate rallies thousands for Bastille march####Thousands of people rallied Sunday in Paris in a show of support for left-wing presidential candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon. France 24 talks to the people who came from across the country to join the march.Left-wing leader Jean-Luc Mélenchon led thousands of supporters in a festive campaign march to Bastille square in Paris on Sunday. With five weeks left before the first round of France’s presidential election, Mélenchon has been gaining increasing support from voters and threatening incumbent president Nicolas Sarkozy's most serious challenger, Socialist Party candidate François Hollande. While the Socialist candidate has slowly been shedding his once significant lead in voter intention surveys, from as high as 39% in October to around 27% in the latest surveys, Mélenchon increased his support from around 5% to 11% support during the same period. Mélenchon is leading the Left Front coalition that is farther to the left ideologically than France’s main opposition Socialist party. Grey skies and light rain did little to curb the marchers' enthusiasm. Members of the French Communist Party, who are allied with Mélenchon for the election, were out en masse for Sunday's march, but the gathering had also attracted many other leftist sympathisers. The parade-like march that featured flat-bed trucks blasting music, bright red balloons and flags column slowly advanced from Paris' 11th arrondissement to Place de la Bastille - a busy square steeped in the symbolism of the French Revolution. Alizée Minkur, 23, from Paris. Alizée Minkur, 23, a recent university graduate who studied political science and is looking for work, said she was still unsure if she would vote for Hollande or Mélenchon. “I was curious to hear Mélenchon’s speech at the Bastille and find out what changes he will propose. I am also here to march against the dictatorship imposed by the financial markets,” Minkur said. As a university student she was a member of the Socialist Party’s youth movement, but quit. “They were not far enough to the left for me,” Minkur explained. Jacques Ambroise, 48, from Normandy. Jacques Ambroise, 48, wore the familiar red of the CGT union and French Communist Party, both of which he belongs to. “I am sceptical of the Socialist Party, who was already in power,” Ambroise, a railroad worker from the region of Normandy, said. “I hope the Left Front will continue to bring together more and more voters and that Mélenchon will get a good score in the first round. I think it’s possible,” he said. Pierre Butheil, 53, and Elina Angles, 64 came by train all the way from the southern city of Montpellier for Sunday’s march. They didn’t belong to any political party but joked that they belonged to the “Left Front” coalition. “We want a real change to the left, and Francois Hollande is incapable of making that change,” Angles said. She dismissed Hollande’s call to cast a “useful vote” in his favour in order to beat incumbent Sarkozy. “For me the useful vote is for Mélenchon,” Angles said. Eric Tempir, 37, and Pierricq Berleux, 29, from Brittany. Eric Tempir, 37, and Pierricq Berleux, 29, had travelled to Paris from Brittany. They said they were there to support Mélenchon, but also in support of the peoples of Greece, Spain and Italy who were suffering from EU imposed austerity measures. “We are here for a new Europe,” Tempir said. “We were inspired by [Mélenchon’s] call to take back the Bastille, because we have to take the fight to the street. Our march is peaceful, we are not fascists, but we will have to fight to keep the rights our parents won.” Xavier, 20, and Sylvain, 18 –both science students about to start university– said they were curious to see how this rally would unfold. “We share the ideas expressed by Mélenchon and we wanted to add our small contribution to this day,” Sylvain said. “Other left-wing candidates also have good ideas, but only Mélenchon has the ability to bring people together,” Xavier added. Samuel Durand, 70, from the Ardeche region. Maelle Sopena, 40, was carrying a sign reading “out of work artist”. She said her dream was to see a constitutional assembly in France before she died. “For the time being, Mélenchon is the only credible candidate, he is the only one with the necessary charisma to mobilize people,” Sopena said. Samuel Durand, 70, is a retired bee keeper from the south-central Ardeche region. He described himself as “very much an environmentalist” but said he did not have confidence in France’s Green party. He said he was particularly interested in preventing shale drilling in France. “Mélenchon has strongly come out against shale gas drilling,” Durand explained. “He has the clearest position on the issue.” Mariam Barry, 34, from the Paris suburbs. Mariam Barry, 34, (pictured right) is a nurse in the suburbs of Paris. A native of Ivory Coast she has lived in France for nearly 10 years and cannot vote in the election. “I am here because Mélenchon stands up for what’s important to me,” Barry said. “He will defend public nursery schools, raise the minimum wage, protect abortion rights, and help undocumented workers.” Barry was part of Femmes-Egalité group that was taking part in the march to the Bastille.
####2012 March 19####50 years on, France and Algeria remember####In today's French papers, we look at memories of the France-Algeria war on the 50th anniversary of the ceasefire that ended it - and at left wing candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon, who's soaring in the polls.
####2012 March 19####C'est la lutte finale!####Far left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon storms the Bastille - we have a look at just why he's doing so well in the polls, and whether Socialist candidate François Hollande should be worried.
####2012 March 19####Court approves official list of presidential candidates####France’s Constitutional Court on Monday released a list of the 10 candidates who have qualified to run in the April 22 presidential election, including incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy and front-running Socialist challenger François Hollande.AFP - France's Constitutional Court on Monday approved 10 candidates to run for the presidency in a two-round contest on April 22 and May 6, court president Jean-Louis Debre said. The 10, including right-wing incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist rival Francois Hollande, were approved after the court confirmed they had collected the required 500 signatures from elected mayors and regional councillors. The full list of approved candidates is: Nicolas Sarkozy, incumbent, centre-right, UMP Francois Hollande, centre-left, Socialist Party Marine Le Pen, far-right, eurosceptic anti-immigrant, National Front Francois Bayrou, centrist, MoDem Jean-Luc Melenchon, far left and Communist coalition, Left Front Eva Joly, environmentalist, EELV Nicolas Dupont-Aignan, conservative eurosceptic, DLR Nathalie Arthaud, Trotskyist, Workers' Struggle Philippe Poutou, Trotskyist, New Anti-Capitalist Party Jacques Cheminade, independent Too many candidates on the left? To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. By FRANCE 24 All 10 candidates will stand in the April 22 first round, after which the two leading contenders will face a run-off on May 6 to choose France's next president, one of the world's most powerful executive posts. A good run in the presidential race will also set the scene for a two-round legislative poll in June, which could give the victor a working majority in parliament for his entire five-year term. Over the past six months since he won the Socialist Party's primary and became its candidate, Hollande has enjoyed a consistent lead in opinion polls on likely voting intentions. But Sarkozy has begun to close the gap, at least in first-round voting intentions, thanks to an energetic and decidedly right-wing campaign in which he has promised tough anti-immigration measures. Hollande's lead has also been undermined by a better-than-expected showing by Melenchon, a former Socialist minister who left the party to found his own leftist group and has allied with the Communists. The latest opinion polls show Sarkozy and Hollande running more-or-less neck-and-neck in the first round, but with Hollande still favourite to gather enough votes from defeated candidates' supporters to swing the run-off.
####2012 March 20####The Toulouse shooting and the French presidential race####After the Toulouse school shooting, almost all the major candidates for French presidency have suspended their campaigns. François Picard's panel wonders whether the tragedy will soften the rhetoric of a race that, for many, has taken a divisive tone.Waddick DOYLE, Professor and Chair of Global Commincation Department, American University of Paris; Régis LE SOMMIER, Deputy Editorial Director, Paris Match; Bernard KANOVITCH, Chair of the Committee for relations with the Moslem community, Jewish umbrella group CRIF; Viteke KNOOP-RACHLING, Paris Correspondent, Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten. Watch part two Produced by Christopher Davis, Pauline Heilmann, Mary Colombel, Anelise Borges
####2012 March 20####The Toulouse shooting and the French presidential race (part 2)####After the Toulouse school shooting, almost all the major candidates for French presidency have suspended their campaigns. François Picard's panel wonders whether the tragedy will soften the rhetoric of a race that, for many, has taken a divisive tone.Waddick DOYLE, Professor and Chair of Global Communication Department, American University of Paris; Régis LE SOMMIER, Deputy Editorial Director, Paris Match; Bernard KANOVITCH, Chair of the Committee for relations with the Moslem community, Jewish umbrella group CRIF; Viteke KNOOP-RACHLING, Paris Correspondent, Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten. Watch part one Produced by Christopher Davis, Pauline Heilmann, Mary Colombel, Anelise Borges
####2012 March 20####The tragedy that shattered France####France's newspapers mourn the deaths of three children and an adult in a shooting outside a Jewish school in Toulouse yesterday.Liberation has simply a black front page with the names of those killed - inside they say it's too early to analyse, but politicians should be careful about the language they use to talk about race and religion. La Croix also says politicians should not try to capitalise on this - and some of them have said things that could inflame a right-wing extremist. And Le Figaro says they all need to take a moment of reflection and work out how best to protect ethnic minorities.
####2012 March 20####'This inflammatory political rhetoric must stop'####We look at some international reaction to the Toulouse school shooting - and what exactly Russia is up to in Syria.Israeli newspapers Haaretz and the Jerusalem Post both remark that some of the inflammatory language used by French politicians campaigning about ethnic minorities may have inflamed a right-wing extremist. The Independent goes further - saying one consequence should be the end of some of hard-right rhetoric used by the ruling UMP party. Meanwhile, the Moscow Times asks what exactly is going on with Russia's seemingly contradictory policy towards Syria - and the Guardian has some new leaked documents showing Assad personally signing off on repressive measures.
####2012 March 22####Have the Toulouse shootings played into Marine le Pen's hands?####The shootings in Toulouse have shaken up the entire French presidential campaign - but will this benefit far-right candidate Marine Le Pen? She has already been accused of trying to profit from the tragic events. We ask if her tactic will work.
####2012 March 22####France shooting: the political impact####One thing is for sure: things will never be the same after the tragedy that has engulfed France over the past few weeks. Three soldiers, two of them Muslim, three Jewish children under the age of 10 and a rabbi were coldly murdered in the southwest of France by Mohammed Merah, a self-proclaimed member of al Qaeda. A truce was declared by most candidates in the presidential race, but politics quickly resurfaced.On the set: Philip Turle, Journalist, RFI Dave Clark, Paris deputy bureau chief, AFP.
####2012 March 22####Toulouse Tragedy: a turning point in the presidential race?####Toulouse: the name of this pretty town in south-western France will now forever be synonymous with death. The tragic deaths of three Jewish children, gunned down with one of their professors as they arrived in school, as well as the cold-blooded assassination of three French soldiers by the same man, have plunged France into a sea of sorrow and soul-searching. But what will the impact on the presidential campaign be?On the set: Gabriele PARISSINI, Correspondent, Wall Street Journal in Paris; Guillaume AYNÉ, Secretary General, French NGO "SOS Racisme".
####2012 March 23####March 21: French voter intentions for presidential race####<p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> Opinion survery conducted by CSA polling agency for BFM television, 20 Minutes daily, and RMC radio. This survey raises questions about who will come third in France's presidential race. A rise in voter intentions for left-wing candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon (13%) and declining support for far-right leader Marine Le Pen (13.5%), have put the pair in a technical tie with centrist François Bayrou (13%). CSA's poll showed Nicolas Sarkozy enjoyed a small lead (30%) over his main challenger, Socialist Party candidate François Hollande (28%) in the first round of the French presiential race. Green candidate Eva Joly continued to struggle, with only 2% support, the study showed. CHECK PREVIOUS OPINION POLLS ON FRANCE'S PRESIDENTIAL RACE 26 DAYS LEFT March 27: French voter intentions for presidential race 32 DAYS LEFT March 21: French voter intentions for presidential race 40 DAYS LEFT March 13: French voter intentions for presidential race  
####2012 March 25####French election rivals spar over national security####With just four weeks to go before France votes in the first round of the presidential election, the murderous acts of Toulouse gunman Mohamed Merah have thrust security to the top of the agenda for the candidates.With just four weeks to go before France votes in the first round of the presidential election, the murderous acts of Toulouse gunman Mohamed Merah have thrust security to the top of the agenda for the candidates. The battle to become France’s next president was back in full swing on Sunday, with the rival candidates trading blows on the issue of security. In the aftermath of Mohamed Merah’s deadly rampage in Toulouse and Montauban, the subject of national security has now emerged as a key battleground for the contenders. In his latest campaign speech on Saturday, Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande the chief rival to incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy was eager to point the finger of blame in the aftermath of the terrorist shootings. Sarkozy has “failed” "Sarkozy has failed," Socialist candidate François Hollande told a rally in Corsica (Photo AFP). “On this issue of security, the outgoing president has failed to achieve what he pledged,” 57-year-old Hollande jibed during a speech to around 500 supporters in Corsica. “Nicolas Sarkozy does not have a good record on law and order in France,” he added. “The French Republic must ensure each citizen’s right to live in safety,” he told his followers. The importance of national security has not been lost on the 57-year-old French president. Just over an hour after Mohamed Merah’s death on Thursday, a resolute Sarkozy announced his plans to introduce a raft of new measures aimed at tackling the threat of terrorism. Anyone looking at extremist websites would be punished under new laws and those convicted could face prison. Sarkozy also called for a crack down on indoctrination both online and in training camps abroad. Sarkozy also announced an inquiry into how the country’s prisons are helping to radicalise young Muslim men like Mohamed Merah. In the face of this raft of new proposed measures, Hollande attacked Sarkozy for knee-jerk policy making. The MP for the district of Correze in central France believes that the current terror laws are sufficient. “The outgoing president always makes the same mistakes. If he wants new laws, why were they not introduced earlier? Once again, a crisis occurs and he introduces a new law,” Hollande told journalists after his rally in Corsica. He also accused Sarkozy of exploiting the killings in Toulouse for his own electoral gain. Hollande is a “ditherer” Mohamed Merah’s killing spree in Toulouse and Montauban coincided with a boost in the polls for Nicolas Sarkozy. FRANCE Toulouse shooter drama shakes up presidential race At the start of February, Hollande had a seven point lead over Sarkozy but that advantage has been gradually whittled down. On March 23, the day after commandos stormed Merah’s flat to bring his 10 day reign of terror to an end, an opinion poll gauging voter intentions in the first round ballot on April 22 put Sarkozy on 28.5 percent of the vote compared to Hollande’s 27 percent. Sarkozy tried to force home that advantage at his own campaign rally on Saturday in the town of Rueil-Malmaison in the western suburbs of Paris, where he too was eager to score points against his socialist rival on the issue of security. He attacked Hollande for never having voted in support of the existing anti-terror laws which he is currently “hiding” behind. Sarkozy labelled Hollande a “procrastinator and a ditherer” to a crowd of around 3,000 supporters Saturday. The president went on to say, “Refusing to vote for new laws is his right, but they will be passed if the French voters put their faith in me.”. The president repeated the anti-terror rhetoric of recent days arguing, “terrorism, jihad and violence are not opinions, they are strictly forbidden by the French Republic”. Aujourd'hui : "How to better protect ourselves" “I will hunt all those who preach hatred,” he vowed. Sarkozy was widely credited in France for his handling of the Toulouse crisis, with 71% praising his efforts in a recent opinion poll. However, in the aftermath of the siege a debate has raged in the French media over police. The intelligence services have also come under fire for failing to detect the threat of Mohamed Merah. But the French president has firmly defended the actions of the elite police unit RAID who handled the case. “I will not allow anyone to question the honour of those members of the intelligence services and the officers of RAID who risked their lives to bring to an end the trail of bloodshed left by a monster,” he said. Saturday’s rally also saw Sarkozy revisit the contentious nationalist issues which in the past has left him open to accusations of courting the far right vote. “We don’t want the burqa,” he said. “We don’t want our municipal swimming pools to have different times for men and women, and we want all our schools to have the same menu for our children.” Fight fundamentalism Far right candidate Marine le Pen was also on the campaign trail on Saturday and the events in Toulouse were high on her radar. While visiting a market in the town of Meaux to the east of Paris, Le Pen targeted the issue of Islamic fundamentalism as the main security threat in France. She called for a “protest against fundamentalists” and asked all “our Muslim compatriots” to join this movement. With the first round of the presidential elections only four weeks away and with the country still reeling after the devastating events in Toulouse, national security looks likely to remain a key election battle right up until April 22.  Toulouse shootings FRANCE France ‘botched’ Toulouse gunman investigation FRANCE Spotlight on troubled suburbs amid terror fears FRANCE - TERRORISM Toulouse attacks expose, and overplay, French jihadist threat  
####2012 March 26####The race for third place####Who's going to be the third man in the French election? Leftist Jean-Luc Mélenchon, far-right candidate Marine Le Pen and centrist François Bayrou are all hot on the heels of the top two contenders.
####2012 March 26####Candidates face off over law and order####In today's French papers, Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande face off over who can be the toughest on crime.Le Figaro says the left's reaction to the Toulouse shootings shows they are still idealistic and naive about law and order, while Liberation says Sarkozy is responsible for the mistakes made by the intelligence services. The papers are also looking at rumours Liliane Bettencourt's fund manager illegally financed Sarkozy's 2007 campaign - and just how much France's best-paid CEOs earn.
####2012 March 27####Law and order isn't voters' priority####Dominique Strauss-Kahn makes all the front pages of the French papers today - while inside, we look at whether the French really care about law and order.The papers all put Dominique Strauss-Kahn on their front pages - but inside, it's still the election keeping them busy. Le Parisien has a poll putting Nicolas Sarkozy's favourite theme, law and order, near bottom a list of voters' top ten priorities. Le Figaro is looking at where Mohamed Mehra got his weapons from - while L'Humanité's focus is the rise and rise of Jean-Luc Mélenchon.
####2012 March 27####The rise and rise of Jean-Luc Mélenchon####Today we're looking at Jean-Luc Mélenchon, the left-wing candidate who went from being considered a fringe populist to third place in the French presidential race, and who is continuing his rise in the polls.
####2012 March 27####Mohamed Merah: secret service informant?####MEDIAWATCH FRANCE, Tues. 27/3/2012: Was Mohamed Merah a French secret service informant? So says a former head of an intelligence agency here in France. Also, an Italian paper says Merah travelled to Israel in 2010 - with the support of French spy agencies.
####2012 March 27####French police tackle homegrown terrorism####Following the death of an Islamic extremist in Toulouse last week after he shot and killed several people, we take a look at how French police are trying to tackle homegrown terrorism. Next, after escaping a war zone, some Afghan teenagers find themselves having to sleep rough on the streets of Paris. Finally, a museum in the west of France delves into a dark period in French colonial history - the slave trade.
####2012 March 28####Campaign finance scandal gets closer to Sarkozy####There are more revelations about Mohamed Merah in today's French papers - but who edited his gruesome video and sent it to Al Jazeera? Police are looking for collaborators. We also look at the campaign finance scandal that is getting closer to Sarkozy.Le Parisien looks at who else could have posted that memory stick to Al Jazeera - while Le Figaro has revelaions about Mohamed Merah's father. Le Monde reveals that investigators in the Bettencourt case are getting closer to directly implicating Nicolas Sarkozy in illegal campaign finance. The opinion polls, meanwhile, continue to disagree - Le Figaro has Sarkozy doing better, Liberation quite the opposite.
####2012 March 28####The candidates and their cash####Today we're looking at the funding of French election campaigns, as President Nicolas Sarkozy is hit by more scandals involving wealthy donors.
####2012 March 29####It's getting complicated on the left####As left-wing firebrand Jean-Luc Mélenchon continues to rise and rise in the opinion polls, some in the Socialist Party are getting anxious.
####2012 March 29####Toulouse, the fallout: A closer look at the shooter's background####A week after the death of Mohamed Merah, a lot of questions still remain unanswered as to how he was able to go on a killing spree, whether he was helped, and what his relation with the French intelligence services was. François Picard and his panel discuss these issues and, more widely, whether it is possible to prevent this kind of tragedy. They also look at the impact on France's presidential race just three weeks ahead of the first round.Clea CAULCUTT, RFI journalist; Jean-Charles BRISARD, Consultant on Security and Terrorism issues; James COHEN, Professor of Political Science, Université Paris III Sorbonne Nouvelle; Salah NEGM, News director, Al Jazeera English. Watch the second part Program produced and prepared by Christopher Davies, Anelise Borges and François Picard 
####2012 March 29####Mélenchon heats things up for Hollande####In today's papers, it's all about Jean-Luc Mélenchon - the leftist firebrand who's been the real surprise of the election campaign.Libération looks at the strategies the Socialists could adopt to fight Mélenchon - let him do well and then pinch his voters in the second round, or attack? L'Humanité is celebrating his success - but so is Le Figaro, keen to see fresh divisions appear on the left. He's also taking votes from Marine Le Pen - she tells Le Parisien she's the only real anti-establishment candidate.
####2012 March 29####Google launches new political website for French elections####Google unveiled a new feature on its French edition that aggregates news and political information surrounding the upcoming presidential race. The company unveiled the new section on Wednesday with a debate on the political impact of the internet.France has become the latest country to benefit from Google's foray into election-related news with the launch of a new feature that aggregates political information and candidate profiles related to the upcoming presidential elections. The release Wednesday of Google's "Election and Politics" section on its French site, Google.fr, is the online search giant's fourth election website after Egypt, Senegal and the United States. The company kicked off the new service at its Paris headquarters with a debate among leading political social media experts from the US, France and Tunisia to discuss the growing impact that the internet is having on political campaigns around the world. In France, the panelists agreed, the internet has transformed the political landscape since the last presidential vote in 2007. "The context of the 'net' campaign completely changed" said French online strategist Benoit Thieulin. In the last election, he said, the internet teams at the various campaigns were staffed with young people, largely isolated from the decision-makers. Today, in the wake of US president Barack Obama's successful 2008 online presidential campaign, the on and offline strategies have now merged, according to Thieulin. In the era before social networking sites like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube went mainstream, the internet played a largely peripheral role in presidential campaign strategies. Today, with a majority of the population in both France and the US connected to the network, the situation is entirely different. "We are reaching a critical mass of people who are connected to each other. We didn't necessarily have that in 2004 and 2008," said Republican online strategist Patrick Ruffini. While only a small minority of the overall population is politically active online, veteran Democrat digital strategist Joe Trippi said the actual number isn't what's important. Instead the issue is how the campaigns can best take advantage of their online supporters, "it's giving the people the power to take action themselves," he said. Now campaign strategists can leverage this population, he added, and "turn them from followers who don't just follow online but also do something offline [like] voting and participating."
####2012 March 29####March 27: French voter intentions for presidential race####<p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p> Opinion survey conducted by Harris Interactive polling agency for VSD magazine and LCP television. Harris Interactive's poll echoed other recent surveys showing that Nicolas Sarkozy (28%) has overtaken his main rival, Socialist François Hollande (27%) and is now the frontrunner for the first round of the election. It also confirms the rise in support for left-winger Jean-Luc Mélenchon (13%) and a fall in voter intentions for centrist François Bayrou (11%). Far-right candidate Marine Le Pen (16%) and Green party nominee Eva Joly (3%) neither lost or gained ground from the firm's previous survey. CHECK PREVIOUS OPINION POLLS ON FRANCE'S PRESIDENTIAL RACE 26 DAYS LEFT March 27: French voter intentions for presidential race 32 DAYS LEFT March 21: French voter intentions for presidential race 40 DAYS LEFT March 13: French voter intentions for presidential race  
####2012 March 30####'Where has the crisis gone?'####FRENCH PAPERS, Fri. 30/03/12: Following the recent shootings in Toulouse and Montauban, national security has come to the forefront on the campaign trail. Left-leaning Libération says candidates should instead focus more on the issues that really interest French people, namely the economy and unemployment.Get the France 24 press review on your iPhone or become a fan on Facebook.   Some articles from today’s French press review:   LIBERATION: “Where has the crisis gone?”   LE FIGARO: “Rajoy’s moment of truth”   LE PARISIEN: “Globalization: Europe is facing unfair competition”
####2012 March 30####Does your sex life determine how you vote?####MEDIAWATCH FRANCE, Fri. 30/3/2012: A study links sexual practices with how one votes. We also look at the arrest of 19 suspected Islamists in France today, and Sarkozy comparing the trauma post-9/11 in the US with France's trauma after the killings in Toulouse and Montauban...
####2012 March 30####The World This Week - March 30th, 2012####Has Nicolas Sarkozy’s handling of the Toulouse shooter ordeal put the incumbent back in the saddle, or will security issues abate in a presidential race where rising unemployment looms large? François Picard’s panel argues over the outcome of the election campaign in France.Christopher DICKEY. Paris Bureau Chief, Newsweek Magazine. Columnist,The Daily Beast; Vivienne WALT. Contributor, Time Magazine; Anne-Elisabeth MOUTET. Columnist, The Sunday Telegraph; Stefan SIMONS. Paris correspondent, Der Spiegel. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Paul Makaad. Watch the second part here. 
####2012 March 30####The World This Week - March 30th, 2012 (part 2)####Has Nicolas Sarkozy’s handling of the Toulouse shooter ordeal put the incumbent back in the saddle, or will security issues abate in a presidential race where rising unemployment looms large? François Picard’s panel argues over the outcome of the election campaign in France.Christopher DICKEY. Paris Bureau Chief, Newsweek Magazine. Columnist,The Daily Beast; Vivienne WALT. Contributor, Time Magazine; Anne-Elisabeth MOUTET. Columnist, The Sunday Telegraph; Stefan SIMONS. Paris correspondent, Der Spiegel. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Paul Makaad. Watch the first part here.
####2012 March 31####Sarkozy moves to woo France's young voters####French President Nicolas Sarkozy turned his attention to France's young voters in his latest campaign speech on Saturday. Speaking in front of 7,000 loyal followers, Sarkozy announced a series of measures aimed at tackling youth unemployment.President Nicolas Sarkozy put France’s young voters firmly in his sights on Saturday as his campaign for re-election enters a crucial period. With just three weeks to go before France heads to the polls in the first round of the presidential election, Sarkozy has homed in on winning over the country’s young voters in a speech in Paris. Speaking in front of around 7,000 sympathisers of his UMP party, Sarkozy announced several measures aimed at wooing France’s youth, including the creation of a “youth bank” which would provide loans to young entrepreneurs. “I want society to support those young people who want to work, who want to study and build their place in society and take control of their adult life,” Sarkozy told the Tricolour-waving crowd. “We will create a youth bank that will provide loans for those who want to start a small business and who don’t have a family who can support them,” he said. “Helping young people to be free, responsible and helping them to realise their dreams, that for me is a policy for young people,” Sarkozy added. Sarkozy also announced plans to double the number of participants in France's ‘civilian service’ scheme – a voluntary national service programme for young people. Young UMP sympathisers cheer on Nicolas Sarkozy in Paris In another move aimed at dealing with the issue of youth unemployment, the president vowed to force businesses with over 250 employees to create a number of apprenticeship positions equivalent to five percent of the workforce. Saturday’s gathering marked Sarkozy’s return to economic issues after Mohamed Merah’s killing spree in Toulouse and Montauban pushed policing and counter-terrorism to the top of his agenda. Sarkozy, who has revealed his presidential programme in stages, had largely ignored young people during his election campaign up until Saturday’s rally – unlike his chief rival for the Elysée Palace, Socialist candidate Francois Hollande, who has vowed to put the youth of France at the heart of his mandate. “It is for the youth of this country that I want to become the president of France. I will make education a real national priority,” Hollande said when he launched his campaign with a 60-point manifesto in January. Hollande has vowed to create 60,000 new jobs in education to help reduce the number of youth leaving school without qualifications. He also plans to cut charges for employers who hire young people. ‘The more ambitious candidate’ With youth unemployment in France having risen to 22.4 percent at the end of 2011, Sarkozy will have his work cut out to convince young voters to put their trust in him for another five years. But the young sympathisers of the ruling UMP party are clearly behind him. The crowd, many of whom wore T- shirts bearing the slogan ‘Sarkozy students’, gave him a rapturous reception on Saturday. “We will win”, they shouted over and over again. Many who turned up to show their support for Sarkozy believe the incumbent president is not to blame for the high unemployment among young people. “It is not Sarkozy’s fault, it has more to do with the financial crisis and compared to other countries in Europe, France is not that bad,” Berangere Haquen, a 22-year-old student, told FRANCE 24. Berangere Haquen, 22, says youth unempoyment in France is 'not Sarkozy's fault' “I think Sarkozy wanted to tackle the crisis first and then tackle the problem of jobs for young people in his next mandate. With the crisis it has been very difficult to implement reform and France generally does not accept radical reform easily,” she added. Also among Sarkozy’s young supporters was 22-year-old UMP supporter Samuel Laufer, who made the trip from London to Paris to attend the rally. “Sarkozy’s job for the last five years was to protect France from the consequences of the financial crisis and the economic downturn. I think he achieved that. He has done as much as he could,” Laufer told FRANCE 24. “Sarkozy is the more ambitious candidate and that appeals to young people. They are at the beginning of their lives and want to aim high and it is with Sarkozy that we can do that,” he added. Back in February, Sarkozy lagged seven points behind Hollande in opinion polls. But in recent weeks he has clawed back the advantage and is now expected to gain more votes in the first-round ballot. However polls show Hollande is still predicted to triumph in the crucial second-round of voting on May 6. “Sarkozy’s campaign team billed the speech as the beginning of a new chapter and it did feel a bit like that. He had a lot to say about hope and the future of young people,” said FRANCE 24’s Elena Casas reporting from the rally. But, she added, “In the last election, 63 per cent of young people voted for the Socialist Party candidate, so it remains to be seen whether today’s speech will give them reason to vote for Sarkozy this time round.”  
####2012 April 02####France's presidential election goes digital####The last time French voters went to the polls to elect their president, in 2007, the Internet played an inconsequential role. Today, the situation is totally different. Voters across the country are participating via micro-blogs, social networks and search engines prompting the leading campaigns to develop comprehensive online strategies.
####2012 April 02####Why are the French so unenthusiastic about their election?####There's just 20 days to go before the first round of the presidential election - but a record 32% of the French say they're so turned off by the campaign that they won't be voting at all. We take a look at why.
####2012 April 02####Is Mali splitting in two?####We're focusing on Mali on today's French press - where has the Tuareg rebellion sprung from, and what risks does it pose now? We also look, of course, at the French election - with a new poll saying 32% of voters don't plan to cast a ballot at all.La Croix explains the slate of problems facing Mali - not just regional division, but climate change, poverty and a desperate need for development. Le Parisien headlines on that poll saying 32% of voters won't turn out - saying they're turned off by politicians not tackling the real issues. Le Figaro reckons that could boost their candidate, Nicolas Sarkozy.
####2012 April 02####A third of French may abstain from presidential vote####Three weeks ahead of the first round of France's presidential election, a record 32% of French voters say they are considering abstaining from the vote following an uninspiring campaign season, an Ifop poll revealed on Sunday.AFP - Three weeks ahead of the first round of voting in the French presidential election, a record number of voters are thinking of abstaining, testimony to widespread frustration with a lack-lustre campaign. An Ifop poll Sunday said 32 percent of voters could abstain in the first round -- a record, up three percentage points compared to two weeks ago. Political analyst Vincent Tiberj, writing in the left-leaning Le Monde daily, suggested that voters were bored with the campaign that had "failed to live up to its promises". Neither President Nicolas Sarkozy, who has yet to announce his manifesto ahead of the April 22 first round of voting, nor Socialist Francois Hollande, his main rival whose early lead over Sarkozy is slipping, have excited much passion. With neither candidate likely to win an outright majority in the first round of voting, a second round, with just two candidates, will take place on May 6. But fewer than half of voters (43 percent) look forward to that straight fight, according to the Ifop poll published by the Journal du Dimanche on Sunday. Rank outsider Eva Joly, the 68-year-old Green party candidate, suffered a different kind of slip on Sunday, being admitted to hospital in Paris after falling as she left a cinema. She was expected to be discharged early Tuesday and would continue her campaigning activities, her campaign director Stephane Sitbon-Gomez assured. However Joly's first engagement, an interview on RTL radio, was cancelled. Hollande, whose early commanding position has recently been weakened by the spectacular rise of Left Front candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon, has been increasing his attacks on Sarkozy's presidency. On Sunday he slammed Sarkozy for failing to turn the tide of unemployment, while decrying what he sees as growing social inequalities, and an "abandoned youth." He warned that the high level of voter frustration could translate into widespread abstentionism. "Abstention is the danger in this presidential election, much more than the scattering" of votes among left-wing candidates, a worried Hollande said Sunday during a campaign trip to France's Indian Ocean territory of Reunion. The Socialist candidate well remembers how the 2002 presidential vote proved a disaster for his party. An unprecedented abstention rate of 28.4 percent contributed to then Socialist candidate Lionel Jospin being knocked out in the first round, giving conservative president Jacques Chirac a clear run against far-right candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen. Sarkozy, who so far has failed to restore hope among many of those who voted for him five years ago, has yet to announce his manifesto. In the meantime, the president has sought to control the news cycle by multiplying new announcements. On Saturday, he announced the creation of a "bank for youth" that would finance job entries or studies for France's disaffected young. On the same day, the conservative candidate promised a victims' association that he would stiffen punishments for offenders, especially those responsible for sex crimes. Surfing on nationwide shock at last week's execution-style murder of a teenager at the hand of four other adolescents, the president vowed "firmness" in dealing with delinquent minors, a favourite theme of the right-wing anti-immigration Front National. But while Sarkozy seeks to steal votes back from the Front National, he risks alienating centrist citizens whose votes could prove vital in the second round. Philippe Douste-Blazy, a key supporter of centrist candidate Francois Bayrou, said he wanted the campaign to return to "real subjects": "Employment, how to reduce France's yawning public debt and how to stimulate growth."  
####2012 April 03####France under threat?####With sting operations, arrests, and deportations, French authorities are firing on all cylinders against Islamist extremists. But has the reaction to the Toulouse shootings gone too far? The opposition accuses Nicolas Sarkozy of deliberately labouring the point to fuel his surge in the polls.Arnaud DANJEAN. MEP, European People's Party (UMP); Richard YUNG. French Socialist Senator; Karim AMELLAL. Lecturer, Sciences Po-Paris. Author, "Cités à comparaître"; Marc PERELMAN. France 24 French Politics Editor. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Christopher Davis, Pauline Heilmann. Watch the second part.
####2012 April 03####France under threat? (part 2)####With sting operations, arrests, and deportations, French authorities are firing on all cylinders against Islamist extremists. But has the reaction to the Toulouse shootings gone too far? The opposition accuses Nicolas Sarkozy of deliberately labouring the point to fuel his surge in the polls.Arnaud DANJEAN. MEP, European People's Party (UMP); Richard YUNG. French Socialist Senator; Karim AMELLAL. Lecturer, Sciences Po-Paris. Author, "Cités à comparaître"; Marc PERELMAN. France 24 French Politics Editor. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Christopher Davis, Pauline Heilmann. Watch the first part.
####2012 April 03####Is France in denial over the economy?####The economy is "missing in action" in this election campaign - and the candidates are accused of ignoring an elephant in the room - the looming crisis. We assess their economic policies.
####2012 April 03####The antisocial president####Today's papers focus on Nicolas Sarkozy's handling of the economy - this as his attacks on the unions have infuriated them. We also look at where Mélenchon and Le Pen's voters might turn in the election's second round.Libération calls Nicolas Sarkozy the antisocial president - taking him to task for his attacks on unions - while Les Echos points out he once had quite a good relationship with organised labour, but things have gone badly downhill. Le Parisien has done some number crunching with those voters picking Jean-Luc Mélenchon, Marine Le Pen or François Bayrou trying to work out who they'd vote for in the run-off, and coming up with a good result for François Hollande.
####2012 April 03####Potential mass vote absention 'a danger' for France's Socialists####An opinion poll released Sunday shows the 2012 presidential election could see the highest rate of abstention in the history of the modern French Republic. For frontrunning Socialist candidate François Hollande, that is a cause for real concern.Some 32 per cent of the French electorate is expected to abstain from voting in the forthcoming presidential election, according to a recent opinion poll. It would be a record for the French Republic and of particular concern for the Socialist Party, which has the most to lose. According to a French Institute of Public Opinion (IFOP) poll published in the weekly Journal de Dimanche, the number of voters saying they won’t cast their ballot is bigger than the number supporting any of the leading candidates in the first round of the vote. “The French are fed up with the election campaign so far,” Stephane Rozès of research institute Advice, Analyses and Perspectives told FRANCE 24. “It has been too focussed on personal attacks against rival candidates. “Everyone is waiting for the main candidates to talk about how France is going to deal with the financial crisis, and neither President Nicolas Sarkozy nor Socialist candidate Francois Hollande have got round to answering these question,” he added. “They have not touched on the themes that are of interest to voters, such as unemployment and the rising cost of living.” Jerome Fouquet, senior researcher at IFOP, told FRANCE 24 that voters felt disenfranchised by the political discourse. “They don’t see how any one candidate is going to solve any of their immediate problems,” he said. “They also feel that the interests of big business are a much higher priority for the candidates than are the interests of the French people.” Dangerous ground Fouquet pointed out that most of those saying they would abstain were young or working class, and that these were mostly left-wing voters. According to the IFOP poll, only 46 per cent of working class voters intend to cast ballots in the first round on April 22. Features & Analysis France Voters say ‘non’ to Sarkozy in Le Pen heartland Far-right candidate Marine Le Pen came top in the first round of the presidential election in the Gard region of France, but will her supporters now back right wing President Nicolas Sarkozy? FRANCE 24 met her local supporters to find out. (5) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Obama-style canvassing with France's Socialists FRANCE 24 joined a group of Socialist Party canvassers this week on the streets of Nimes in southern France, the only region where far-right candidate Marine Le Pen came out on top in the presidential election's first round. (58) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 'I’m Arab, a Muslim, and I vote Marine Le Pen' If French Muslims are largely left-leaning in their voting preferences, there are exceptions. France24.com spoke to three French Muslims of Arab descent, all of whom vote for the far-right National Front party. Here are their testimonies. (23) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 French centrists struggle to hold the middle ground After a surprise surge by the far-right and far-left in Sunday's presidential election, French centrist voters have been stripped of their kingmaker status. As their defeated candidate wavers ahead of a May 6 runoff, they are increasingly divided. (1) comment FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy shifts, Hollande digs in on foreign voting rights French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist François Hollande are vying for votes ahead of a May 6 presidential runoff over the right of foreigners to vote in local elections after the anti-immigration National Front did well in the first round. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Stakes are high as Sarkozy flirts with France's far right French president Nicolas Sarkozy is courting the 6.4 million voters who cast ballots for Marine Le Pen's National Front party last Sunday. But on Wednesday, the incumbent president insisted he would make no deals with the far right. (2) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Hollande looks to far right as he forges runoff strategy Socialist presidential candidate Francois Hollande has turned heads in France by choosing to directly address the nearly 6 million voters who cast a ballot for the far right in the first round. (3) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Le Pen wants to conquer the French right wing Marine Le Pen, riding on a wave of unprecedented support, wants to fatally undermine President Sarkozy’s ruling UMP party and come out dominating the French right wing, according to France’s leading expert on the National Front party. (5) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 French left unites with sole aim of ousting Sarkozy The first round of France's 2012 presidential election saw the left wing candidates gain the highest percentage of the vote since 1981. They now have one common goal - to oust French President Nicolas Sarkozy in the run-off vote on May 6. (2) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 French press reels from Le Pen 'hangover' Socialist challenger François Hollande came out on top in the first round of the French presidential election. But editorialists for top national and regional newspapers were just as struck by far-right Marine Le Pen’s stunning electoral coup. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy and Hollande battle for also-rans’ supporters President Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist opponent Francois Hollande came neck and neck in the first round of the country’s presidential election. How supporters of the other main candidates votes will determine the outcome on May 6. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Le Pen shocks France as far right hits historic heights Far-right National Front candidate Marine Le Pen obtained a surprising 18% of the vote in the first-round of France’s presidential election Sunday night. But who will those votes go to in the second round? (96) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Hollande wins first round, sets up run-off with Sarkozy French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist candidate François Hollande will face off in the second round of France's presidential election after edging out the far right's Marine Le Pen in Sunday's first round of voting. (54) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy and Hollande tune up for presidential run-off Incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist candidate François Hollande have made it to the second round of France’s presidential election. But the far right once again caused a stir by pooling almost a fifth of the vote. (8) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Slideshow: With ‘Mr. Nice Guy’ in Hollande’s stronghold FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 French voters flock to polls after lacklustre campaign Despite fears of low turnout after a muted campaign, France's Interior Ministry has reported strong participation in the first round of presidential polls. FRANCE 24 caught up with voters in Paris as they queued to pick their next president. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 France votes in first round of presidential poll In the first round of the 2012 presidential election, French voters are choosing between 10 candidates for the country’s top post after a raucous campaign season that saw the economy dominate the political discourse. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Moment of truth looms for a 'desperate' Sarkozy French President Nicolas Sarkozy told supporters on Friday the "moment of truth" had come. But with the first round of the presidential election less than 48 hours away it appears the pressure is beginning to take its toll on the head of state. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Foreign press ready to bid ‘adieu’ to Sarkozy With the French set to head to the polls for the first round of voting in France’s presidential election, foreign editorialists, reporters, and correspondents have weighed in. FRANCE 24 takes the pulse of news desks around the world. “The danger for Hollande is that many potential Socialist voters assume that he’s going to win anyway, and so they won’t bother casting their ballot,” he said. “This high level of abstention muddies the waters and makes any prediction much more complicated.” The Socialists have real cause for concern. The last time abstentions were nearly as high was in April 2002, when 28 per cent of voters failed to turn out in the first round. It led to a big embarrassment for the Socialist Party when far-right National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen secured nearly 200,000 more votes than his Socialist rival Lionel Jospin and went through to the second round against Jacques Chirac. François Hollande has taken note of the IFOP poll. Campaigning in French overseas territory Réunion, an island in the Indian Ocean, he told reporters on Tuesday that “nothing in this election was a foregone conclusion.” “With an abstention level this high, none of the opinion polls can be considered reliable,” he said. On Tuesday, an Ipsos poll showed Sarkozy taking a lead with 29.5 percent against Hollande's 27.5 per cent in the first round of the vote. For the moment, Hollande enjoys a lead of 56 per cent over Sarkozy's 44 per cent in the second round. <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p>  
####2012 April 04####Islam and the French election####With dozens now arrested across France for allegedly planning a terrorist attack, we ask whether President Sarkozy is using the spectre of radical Islam for his own political ends - and how it's gone down with France's Muslim voters.
####2012 April 04####Sarkozy cracks down on Islamists####Today's papers ask if the arrest of dozens of suspected Islamists just before the election isn't a bit too convenient for Nicolas Sarkozy - while the Bettencourt case is back, and so is Ségolène Royal.Le Figaro is very happy with the president's crackdown on suspected Islamist radicals - but Le Monde asks if the timing isn't a little convenient. Libération reports that the president confonted rumours of illegal campaign spending for the first time yesterday - by attacking the justice system.
####2012 April 05####The war of the manifestoes####The papers go head to head on the policy programmes of Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande - arguing over who has the most unannounced tax rises hidden inside their manifesto.Le Figaro accuses François Hollande of hiding 40 billion euros worth of unannounced tax rises - while Libération says Sarkozy's plans don't add up either. That paper headlines on the dangerous relationship between Sarkozy and Islam - which they think he's exploiting to get right-wing votes. And La Croix challenges the candidates to do something about poverty and homelessness.
####2012 April 05####Royal endorsement gives Hollande campaign boost####Socialist presidential hopeful François Hollande received a welcome endorsement Wednesday from former rival, and the mother of his four children, Ségolène Royal.A campaign stop in the city of Rennes, Brittany, gave Socialist presidential candidate François Hollande a boost on Wednesday, when his ex-partner, 2007 presidential socialist candidate Ségolène Royal, gave him a powerful endorsement speech. The endorsement is a clear signal that Hollande and Royal have patched up their differences after their rumoured acrimonious separation before Royal’s failed 2007 run for the presidency. It was noted in France at the time that Hollande elected to not vocally back or campaign on behalf of Royal. Organisers were expecting around 10,000 people but by 7pm, when Royal was supposed to be at the podium, thousands more were still waiting outside. In photos: Socialist voters flock to Hollande rally in Rennes “This is a shambles!” one of the security guards shouted as the crowd outside surged against the barriers and started chanting. In total, some 18,000 people turned up, making Rennes one of the Socialists' biggest campaign rallies yet. As one of the supporters who managed to get inside rightly whispered, “Such a queue can only mean one thing for Hollande... And it's certainly not a bad one!” Even among the many that were unable to get into the main hall, where Royal and Hollande delivered their speeches, the crowds remained cheerful. “We might not be able to see him from here but at least we can hear him!” declared a group of students from Rennes who had camped out in front of a barrier by the exit. Supporters came from all over the western region of Brittany to attend the rally, travelling many hours by car, coach or train. After a shaky few weeks of creeping gains from the incumbent president, Nicolas Sarkozy, Hollande was in need of a boost in order to secure the top spot in the first round of the election, just 18 days away. At the rally, spirits were running high after Royal's hearty endorsement. “François is our candidate," she told the crowd. "We don’t have a moment to lose…he is the only one who can win on the Left." FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call Clearly buoyed by her words - if not a little irked by her popularity - Hollande went on to lay out his plan of action for his first three months in office. With his detailed "agenda of change", he promised to freeze fuel prices, slash government salaries by 30 per cent and boost welfare payouts for families.  The crowd’s enthusiastic response seemed to spur the normally somewhat controlled Hollande on. He even managed to leave time for some Sarkozy-bashing, much to the delight of the crowd. Hollande jibbed, “The man who claims he's the boss of everything... But who's responsible for nothing!” This taunt prompted a chorus of pantomime cheers, boos and whoops from the Brittany crowd. A Royal affair When Royal faced off against Nicolas Sarkozy in the second round of the 2007 president election, she received a massive 63 per cent of the vote in Rennes. Despite her meagre slice in the Socialist primary vote last October (7 per cent nationwide), she remains hugely popular in Brittany, where she heads the regional council of Poitou-Charentes. “We've always had a soft spot for Ségolène in Brittany,” 70-year-old pensioner Françoise told FRANCE 24. “But we're happy to support whoever the Socialist party thinks is fit to run against Sarkozy.” Features & Analysis France Voters say ‘non’ to Sarkozy in Le Pen heartland Far-right candidate Marine Le Pen came top in the first round of the presidential election in the Gard region of France, but will her supporters now back right wing President Nicolas Sarkozy? FRANCE 24 met her local supporters to find out. (5) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Obama-style canvassing with France's Socialists FRANCE 24 joined a group of Socialist Party canvassers this week on the streets of Nimes in southern France, the only region where far-right candidate Marine Le Pen came out on top in the presidential election's first round. (58) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 'I’m Arab, a Muslim, and I vote Marine Le Pen' If French Muslims are largely left-leaning in their voting preferences, there are exceptions. France24.com spoke to three French Muslims of Arab descent, all of whom vote for the far-right National Front party. Here are their testimonies. (23) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 French centrists struggle to hold the middle ground After a surprise surge by the far-right and far-left in Sunday's presidential election, French centrist voters have been stripped of their kingmaker status. As their defeated candidate wavers ahead of a May 6 runoff, they are increasingly divided. (1) comment FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy shifts, Hollande digs in on foreign voting rights French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist François Hollande are vying for votes ahead of a May 6 presidential runoff over the right of foreigners to vote in local elections after the anti-immigration National Front did well in the first round. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Stakes are high as Sarkozy flirts with France's far right French president Nicolas Sarkozy is courting the 6.4 million voters who cast ballots for Marine Le Pen's National Front party last Sunday. But on Wednesday, the incumbent president insisted he would make no deals with the far right. (2) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Hollande looks to far right as he forges runoff strategy Socialist presidential candidate Francois Hollande has turned heads in France by choosing to directly address the nearly 6 million voters who cast a ballot for the far right in the first round. (3) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Le Pen wants to conquer the French right wing Marine Le Pen, riding on a wave of unprecedented support, wants to fatally undermine President Sarkozy’s ruling UMP party and come out dominating the French right wing, according to France’s leading expert on the National Front party. (5) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 French left unites with sole aim of ousting Sarkozy The first round of France's 2012 presidential election saw the left wing candidates gain the highest percentage of the vote since 1981. They now have one common goal - to oust French President Nicolas Sarkozy in the run-off vote on May 6. (2) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 French press reels from Le Pen 'hangover' Socialist challenger François Hollande came out on top in the first round of the French presidential election. But editorialists for top national and regional newspapers were just as struck by far-right Marine Le Pen’s stunning electoral coup. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy and Hollande battle for also-rans’ supporters President Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist opponent Francois Hollande came neck and neck in the first round of the country’s presidential election. How supporters of the other main candidates votes will determine the outcome on May 6. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Le Pen shocks France as far right hits historic heights Far-right National Front candidate Marine Le Pen obtained a surprising 18% of the vote in the first-round of France’s presidential election Sunday night. But who will those votes go to in the second round? (96) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Hollande wins first round, sets up run-off with Sarkozy French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist candidate François Hollande will face off in the second round of France's presidential election after edging out the far right's Marine Le Pen in Sunday's first round of voting. (54) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy and Hollande tune up for presidential run-off Incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist candidate François Hollande have made it to the second round of France’s presidential election. But the far right once again caused a stir by pooling almost a fifth of the vote. (8) comments FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Slideshow: With ‘Mr. Nice Guy’ in Hollande’s stronghold FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 French voters flock to polls after lacklustre campaign Despite fears of low turnout after a muted campaign, France's Interior Ministry has reported strong participation in the first round of presidential polls. FRANCE 24 caught up with voters in Paris as they queued to pick their next president. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 France votes in first round of presidential poll In the first round of the 2012 presidential election, French voters are choosing between 10 candidates for the country’s top post after a raucous campaign season that saw the economy dominate the political discourse. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Moment of truth looms for a 'desperate' Sarkozy French President Nicolas Sarkozy told supporters on Friday the "moment of truth" had come. But with the first round of the presidential election less than 48 hours away it appears the pressure is beginning to take its toll on the head of state. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Foreign press ready to bid ‘adieu’ to Sarkozy With the French set to head to the polls for the first round of voting in France’s presidential election, foreign editorialists, reporters, and correspondents have weighed in. FRANCE 24 takes the pulse of news desks around the world. Socialist Party campaigner Jean-Paul agreed, perhaps indicating the party’s awareness that they need to remain unified to win this election after a bruising vote to find the party’s candidate for the presidency and years of fractious political infighting. “Between me and my friends we almost all voted for either Ségolene Royal or Martine Aubry in the Socialist primary, but that doesn't make us anti-Hollande. Quite the contrary! We support the party as a whole,” emphasised Jean-Paul. As a nod to her popularity in the region, Hollande – who barely mentioned Royal at the start of his campaign – spoke warmly of the mother to his four children. “Ségolène is here as a symbol of unity, a unity that was missing in 2007 and is there now, strong, irreversible.” Hollande clearly hopes this endorsement will tip the balance in his favour, and thus avoid becoming the party’s fourth failed Socialist presidential candiate in a row.
####2012 April 05####Carla Bruni-Sarkozy: 'Compared to Mme Pompidou, I'm Lady Gaga'####Greeks mourn the suicide of 77-year-old Dimitris Christoulas, who ended his life saying Greece's financial woes pushed him over the edge. And Carla Bruni-Sarkozy says that "compared to Mme Pompidou" she's Lady Gaga. That's what's trending on Mediawatch for Thursday, 5th April 2012.
####2012 April 05####Presidential Race: Can Hollande lose?####In all likelihood, we already know the names of the two top candidates who will make it to the second round of France's presidential election: Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande. And if the polls are right, Hollande will be France's next president, the first Socialist since Mitterrand was re-elected back in 1988. But there is still time for voters to change their minds and unanticipated events to take place. So is it a done deal or an open race?On the set: Jean-Philippe THIELLAY, Vice-president, Terra Nova; Benjamin HADDAD, National secretary, UMP.
####2012 April 05####Sarkozy vows law to balance French budget####French President Nicolas Sarkozy vowed Thursday he would pass a law committing France to balanced budgets if he is re-elected in May, as he accused the opposition Socialists of refusing to support this "golden rule".REUTERS - President Nicolas Sarkozy pledged to achieve a budget surplus for the first time since 1974 and cut France’s swelling debt if re-elected on May 6, warning that his Socialist rival would lead the country towards the fate of Greece or Spain. Presenting an austere manifesto 17 days ahead of the first round of voting on April 22, Sarkozy said he would put a “golden rule” to parliament in July that would commit France to balance its budget, as promised to European partners. Struggling to beat Socialist Francois Hollande and secure a second term, Sarkozy is increasingly playing on voters’ fears about the economy to portray his rival as an unsafe pair of hands at a time when Europe is still in crisis. “Some countries in Europe are on the edge of a precipice today. We cannot refuse to make the historic choice of competitiveness, innovation and reducing public spending,” said the conservative Sarkozy, who trails Hollande in polls f President Nicolas Sarkozy on pension reform To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. or the run-off. “To depart even slightly from the commitments France has made would mean a crisis of confidence,” he said. In another dig, Sarkozy said the speed of market reactions today meant that whereas it took the last Socialist president, Francois Mitterrand, two years to plunge France into crisis in the 1980s, the left today might manage it in just two days. Polls show that stubborn unemployment and stagnant household income are voters’ top worries today, far ahead of issues such as crime and immigration which got Sarkozy elected in 2007. Sarkozy, who himself presided over an explosion of the debt and deficit after the 2008 financial crisis, said his programme would generate a budget surplus of 0.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2017 after achieving balance in 2016, and public debt would fall to 80.6 percent from a peak of 89.4 percent in 2013. Sarkozy called for a mass rally of the “silent majority” to support him on Paris’ central Place de la Concorde on April 15 - a week before the first ballot. “Retake the Bastille” He seemed to be trying to emulate hard-left candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon, who has stormed to third place in some opinion polls after leading a march of tens of thousands of leftists to “retake the Bastille” last month, symbolically re-enacting one of the high points of the 1789 French Revolution.  Pre-empting Sarkozy’s attack on his spending plans, Hollande told Canal+ television early on Thursday that if elected he would immediately order an audit of public finances and could freeze some spending plans. The battle over debt and deficit came after a cover story in the Economist weekly en President Nicolas Sarkozy pledges a 'strong France' To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. titled “France in Denial” made waves in political circles by accusing the two rivals of lacking serious ideas for tackling the country’s economic and fiscal problems. Sarkozy said Hollande’s plan to lower the retirement age to 60 from 62 for people who started work at age 18 or younger showed it was the Socialist who was in denial. “That proposal alone is a negation of the existence of the crisis, and the existence of an outside world,” he said. Earlier, Foreign Minister Alain Juppe, tipped as a possible prime minister if Sarkozy wins, said Hollande’s economic and European plans were an “explosive cocktail” that could derail Europe’s exit from its debt crisis. “Explosive cocktail” “The cocktail of these two measures, the immediate spending without savings, in other words slippage in our public finances, and secondly, throwing the EU treaty into question, could cause the system to explode,” Juppe said. President Nicolas Sarkozy: A balanced budget by 2016 To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. Latest polls show Sarkozy just ahead or level with Hollande in round one, with Melenchon edging ahead of far-right candidate Marine Le Pen for third place and centrist Francois Bayrou sliding to fifth. But all show Hollande ahead with at least 53 and up to 56 percent support for the decisive second ballot. To win, Sarkozy needs centrist and far-right voters to rally behind him in round two, but surveys show many of those people will give their runoff votes to Hollande.  The harsh language from Sarkozy’s camp kept up a long-running exchange of barbs. Fuming after Sarkozy recently told a reporter Hollande was “nul” - a word that translates as “useless” or “pathetic” - the Socialists derided him for taking so long to produce a manifesto. “It’s not very serious,” said Socialist Party chief Martine Aubry, noting Hollande presented his programme in January. “Sarkozy’s programme is his record of the past five years, only worse,” said Hollande, who asserts that the wealthy rather than the needy benefited most from tax giveaways since 2007. The Socialist, who wants to hire 60,000 school staff and create 150,000 state-aided jobs, said he hoped to recruit 4,000 school support staff before the new academic year in September.  
####2012 April 05####The numbers game####A row has broken out over which candidate is hiding the biggest tax rises from the electorate - but with voters still saying their real concerns aren't being addressed, we speak to young voters about why they may not go to the polls at all.
####2012 April 06####Far-left ready to back Hollande in run-off####The anti-capitalist Left Front Party will urge its supporters to unite behind Socialist candidate François Hollande to beat Nicolas Sarkozy in the presidential run-off if its leader is eliminated in the vote’s first round, a spokesperson said Friday.REUTERS - France’s surging hardline leftists finally said out loud on Friday what Socialist Francois Hollande has quietly hoped to hear: that they would encourage their followers to back him in an expected May 6 presidential run-off against Nicolas Sarkozy. Left Front candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon, who says Hollande’s Socialists have gone soft, is expected to be eliminated in the first round of voting in two weeks, but his growing popularity has become one of the main stories of the election campaign. Until now, he had stopped short of saying whether he would urge his supporters to pull behind Hollande to beat centre-right President Sarkozy in a run-off. “We will call for a victory over Sarkozy and we will vote for the left-wing candidate who’s in front,” Melenchon’s spokeswoman Clementine Autain said in an interview on RMC radio. In return, she suggested the Left Front was hoping to secure seats in a future Socialist cabinet. “We want to ensure the left’s success. We would like to see the political conditions emerge for us to take part in government.” Hollande and Sarkozy top the field of 10 candidates for the first round on April 22. Opinion polls suggest Hollande is on course to beat the conservative leader and become France’s first left-wing president in 17 years. Melenchon, who quit the Socialist party in 2008, is backed by the Left Front, a coalition of Communists, his own Left Party and others who believe the Socialists have lost their soul. He has leapfrogged into third place in the polls and often draws bigger crowds than either of the frontrunners. While Melenchon himself rarely says so explicitly, Autain made it clear that the Left Front wanted to capitalise on the former Trotskyist’s success and secure a role in government if the left wins. Melenchon’s promises include a 20 percent rise in the statutory minimum wage and a maximum salary of 360,000 euros a year. Polls show between 70 and 90 percent of his supporters say they would vote for the Socialist if their own candidate is eliminated in the first round as expected. He has overtaken far-right candidate Marine Le Pen in several polls as the third-ranked candidate, but he remains well short of the scores of 25 to 30 percent that Hollande and Sarkozy are seen as taking in the first round. France’s presidential election, on April 22 and May 6, will be immediately followed by parliamentary elections, which the left last won in 1997, paving the way for five years of government by a Socialist-led coalition that included Communists and environmentalist Greens. In the latest sparring between the race leaders on Friday, Sarkozy said Hollande’s tax-and-spend programme was a recipe for disaster in a country that had avoided the worst of Europe’s debt crisis under his leadership in the past five years. “He wants fewer rich people and I want fewer poor people,” Sarkozy said in an interview on RTL radio. Hollande’s campaign team took the president to task over a re-election manifesto Sarkozy presented on Thursday in the form of a letter to France’s near 45 million voters. “It’s not a letter,” said a statement from Hollande’s budget specialist Jerome Cahuzac and campaign spokesman Bernard Cazeneuve. “It’s the bill, and it’s a big one.”  
####2012 April 06####French left rally behind anti-NATO Mélenchon####France’s far-left presidential hopeful Jean-Luc Mélenchon drew crowds of tens of thousands at an outdoor rally in Toulouse on Thursday, where he called for a return to national sovereignty and told supporters that France should withdraw from NATO.REUTERS - French firebrand leftist Jean-Luc Melenchon made a show of force in the southern city of Toulouse on Thursday, drawing tens of thousands of supporters to a rally in which he called for France to withdraw from NATO and harked back to revolutionary times. Melenchon, leader of a group of far-left parties, is riding a wave of enthusiasm for his presidential campaign that has lifted him above far-right chief Marine Le Pen in some polls just three weeks from the first round of a two-stage election. As he fights with Le Pen for third place behind Socialist frontrunner Francois Hollande and President Nicolas Sarkozy, Melenchon aims to maintain momentum from last month when he drew huge crowds to rally on Paris' Bastille place. At his rally in Toulouse, which he dubbed a sequel to Paris' "spirit of La Bastille" speech, Melenchon spoke in typically fiery tones to a crowd that filled out the city's main square, La Place du Capitole, and many of the surrounding streets. "When there is no more liberty, civil insurrection becomes a sacred duty of the Republic," he said, pausing for cheers to die down as the crowd waved dozens of flags. Melenchon also made an appeal for French sovereignty over international groupings, like the European Union, which he said "strangle the voice of the people", repeating his call to pull France out of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO). While French police do not provide attendances estimates for political rallies during a campaign, a Reuters correspondent said at least 25,000 people had attended. Organisers linked to Melenchon's Left Front said 50,000 had shown up. As the election draws near, Melenchon's popularity with voters frustrated by high unemployment and industrial decline has drained support from Hollande, who many polls show in second place behind Sarkozy in the April 22 first round vote. In an IFOP poll published on April 5, Melenchon had 13 percent of the vote in the election's first round on April 22, versus 16 percent for Le Pen. Sarkozy stood in first position with 28.5 percent versus 26.5 percent for Hollande. However, most polls still show Hollande beating Sarkozy in the final run-off round on May 6 by a comfortable margin. THE RALLY IN PICTURES Red flags fill the main square of Toulouse as France’s far-left presidential hopeful, Jean-Luc Mélenchon (seen on stage), speaks to the crowd, who chant “Resistance!” in response. (Credit: Gaëlle Le Roux/ FRANCE 24). Between 30,000 and 40,000 people were expected at the rally, but organisers say at least 50,000 turned up. (Credit: Gaëlle Le Roux/ FRANCE 24). Noëlle, a supporter of Mélenchon’s ‘Front de gauche’ (Left Front) party, holds up a banner reading a quote by French anarchist Louise Michel: “The revolution will be the flowering of humanity as love is the flowering of the heart.” (Credit: Gaëlle Le Roux/ FRANCE 24). “When Mélenchon talks, he expresses what I feel,” Hugo, a student and new Left Front recruit, tells FRANCE 24. “He’s honest and committed. And the fact that he holds his meetings in the street, it says a lot.” (Credit: Gaëlle Le Roux/ FRANCE 24). At the other end of the political spectrum, President Nicolas Sarkozy is far from popular among far-left supporters. Mélenchon described Sarkozy’s term in office as “five vulgar years”. (Credit: Gaëlle Le Roux/ FRANCE 24). Enzo, a lorry driver, holds up a banner reading: ‘White, black, green… French at heart. Mélenchon-ize yourself’. "I’ve never been an ectivist,” he says. “But hearing Mélenchon made me want to take part.” (Credit: Gaëlle Le Roux/ FRANCE 24). Mélenchon has shot up in popularity over the past month. At a rally in Bastille last month, he attracted some 120,000 people. He’s now being described at “the third man” in the election. (Credit: Gaëlle Le Roux/ FRANCE 24).  
####2012 April 06####Women in fake beards take to campaign stage####Nicolas Sarkozy's campaign spokeswoman is subjected to a protest by women wearing fake beards at an Elle magazine presidential election debate. And a data journalists' website reckons there's a bug in his planned crusade against cyberjihad terrorists. That's the focus for MediaWatch this Friday, 6th April 2012.
####2012 April 06####Sarkozy’s Economic Manifesto: Déjà Vu####FRENCH PAPERS, Fri. 06/04/12: French President Nicolas Sarkozy gets a lot of attention in the French press after he unveiled his economic manifesto on Thursday. But many papers point out that his programme isn’t all that new.  Get the France 24 press review on your iPhone or become a fan on Facebook.   Some articles from today’s French press review:   20 MINUTES: “Déjà Vu” LIBÉRATION: “Sarkozy’s programme word for word”  LE PARISIEN: “Sarkozy puts his proposals on the table”  LE FIGARO: “Sarkozy and real life”  LIBÉRATION: “Erika: lawyers want to clear Total”
####2012 April 06####The World This Week - April 6th, 2012####There's one month to go and the argument is on over whether Nicolas Sarkozy’s surge in the polls is enough to ensure the mother of all comebacks. Also, the mess in Mali’s north, and 20 years after the siege of Sarajevo, what lessons apply to Syria?Anne BAGAMERY. Senior Editor, International Herald Tribune; Craig COPETAS. Paris-based journalist. Author of "Bear Hunting with the Politburo"; Anthony BELLANGER. International Affairs Specialist, Arte; Alberto ROMAGNOLI. Correspondent, RAI TV. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Paul Maakad. Watch the second part here.
####2012 April 06####The World This Week - April 6th, 2012 (part 2)####There's one month to go and the argument is on over whether Nicolas Sarkozy’s surge in the polls is enough to ensure the mother of all comebacks. Also, the mess in Mali’s north, and 20 years after the siege of Sarajevo, what lessons apply to Syria?Anne BAGAMERY. Senior Editor, International Herald Tribune; Craig COPETAS. Paris-based journalist. Author of "Bear Hunting with the Politburo"; Anthony BELLANGER. International Affairs Specialist, Arte; Alberto ROMAGNOLI. Correspondent, RAI TV. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Paul Maakad. Watch the first part here.
####2012 April 09####French broadcasters set their stopwatches as official campaign kicks off####The official campaign begins today - meaning French broadcasters are all obliged to give the 10 candidates equal amounts of air time. We ask if that makes any sense - and look at some campaign ads past and present.
####2012 April 09####French presidential campaigns officially kick off####Official campaigning for the April 22 first round of French presidential elections kicked off on Monday, with each candidate granted an equal amount – 43 minutes – of free TV air time. Unofficial campaigning has been underway for weeks.AFP - The campaign for the first round of France's presidential election on April 22 officially kicked off Monday with candidates allowed to put up posters and given free air time on television. Unofficial campaigning has already been underway for weeks, with incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy facing a tough challenge from Socialist frontrunner Francois Hollande. OUR TV SHOWS: RACE TO THE FRENCH PRESIDENCY FACE-OFF French economic woes: ructions over pension reform As of Monday, the 10 registered candidates were allowed to put up campaign posters in areas designated by local authorities, although they were not expected to go up until Tuesday, after the Easter holiday. The posters must be of the same size and not use a white background, which is reserved for official announcements, or any combination of the blue, white and red colours of the French flag. Public television and radio stations will now be allowed to show campaign spots, with each candidate allowed a total of 43 minutes of air time until April 20. All broadcasters have been required to provide equal air time to all candidates following their official registration on March 19. GOODBYE CARLA? FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Who will be France’s next first lady, or gentleman? Candidates will now also be allowed to mail campaign platforms to some 45 million registered voters, all restricted to the same size and format. The campaign officially ends on April 21, with candidates barred from making public statements and no opinion polls allowed to be published. Hollande is leading in the polls to win the May 6 second round but after months of trailing, Sarkozy has in recent weeks moved slightly ahead in first-round voting intentions. The latest IFOP-Fiducial survey released Friday showed Sarkozy ahead with 29 percent to Hollande's 26.5 percent in the first round, though Hollande would win the run-off with 53 percent. Far-right candidate Marine Le Pen of the National Front was third with 16.5 percent, followed by Left Front contender Jean-Luc Melenchon with 12.5 percent and centrist Francois Bayrou with 10 percent.
####2012 April 09####Cheap driving lessons, an election winner?####Today it's all about the unlikely themes the presidential candidates are choosing to campaign on - and the ones they'd rather not talk about that are motivating voters.Le Monde focuses on the environment - a topic virtually absent from this campaign - rating all the candidates on their green credentials. Le Parisien looks at Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande's plans to win over young voters with cheap driving lessons. And Liberation looks at something rather more important to voters - housing - but largely absent from candidates' speeches.
####2012 April 09####Could Twitter 'undermine' France's presidential vote?####Some analysts fear that French election law has been caught on the back foot by the explosion of social media in recent years, and that web users could break the rules that apply to traditional media by publishing exit poll results.Members of the French public posting opinion poll results on Twitter and Facebook before voting stations close may find themselves in breach of French law, while “undermining the integrity of the election”, according to French Sunday newspaper le Journal du Dimanche. Under current rules, French media are prohibited from publishing polls or exit poll results between midnight on the Friday preceding election day until all voting stations have closed on Sunday (all elections in France take place on a Sunday). This happens at 8pm in cities but at 6pm in smaller towns. The first round of the 2012 presidential vote will take place on Sunday April 22 and the second on May 6. But users of websites like Twitter and Facebook – which the French polling commission confirmed fall within the legal definition of “media” – are unused to abiding by strict rules that govern the type of information that can be published about candidates and when. The Journal du Dimanche said on Sunday that “in an extreme case [unlawful media coverage] could even lead to the cancellation of the election.” The law a lame duck While all traditional media in France have pledged to stick to the rules, the Journal du Dimanche sketched out a scenario whereby social networks such as Twitter could render the country’s election law a lame duck. “It is 6.45pm on Sunday April 22 and exit poll results are circulating on Twitter,” the newspaper says. “France’s 5.2 million Twitter users can look at exit poll results in real time, and the country’s 40 million Facebook users start posting the results. “The website of a big Swiss newspaper launches a “scoop”, flying in the face of French law ‘because half of France already knows’.” Knowing early results, especially in an area where candidates might be neck and neck, could lead to voters being influenced by early results (which are usually extremely accurate), the newspaper explained, undermining the carefully controlled balance of the electoral system. “In the case of an extremely close result between two candidates, it would be within the loser’s rights to appeal the results before the Constitutional Council and demand that the election be cancelled.” System ‘needs to be reviewed’ This is precisely the situation French election law aims to prevent. But with Facebook in huge ascendancy since the last presidential vote in France (May 2007) - a time when Twitter had only just launched and was virtually unknown – the law has yet to catch up with the new media landscape. “There is a very real risk here,” Franck Louvrier, head of communications for French President Nicolas Sarkozy, told the JDD. “We are facing a media environment that has no limits.” Herve Berrou, head of news for BFMTV, added: “We will respect the law come what may. But … [with the Internet] we are faced with a host of new threats to the election rules in this country. The system needs to be reviewed urgently.”  
####2012 April 10####Why is Marine Le Pen so popular with young people?####It was widely predicted Marine Le Pen would profit from the Toulouse shootings to rise in the polls. That didn't happen and her poll numbers are falling - but among 18 to 24-year-olds, she's the most popular candidate.
####2012 April 10####Raunchy 'Mélenchon Girls' video goes viral####MEDIAWATCH FRANCE, Tues. 10/4/2012: Many will remember the infamous "Obama Girls" video in support of Barack Obama in 2007. A similarly raunchy video has now hit the web in favour of far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon. Also, how do you say the candidates' names in sign language? "Pointy ears?" Really?!
####2012 April 10####The final countdown####There's just 12 days to go before D-Day, the first round of the French presidential election - but the papers think it could still go either way, as all sorts of questions remain about what the French will do when they get in to the voting booth.Liberation says there are five questions still to be asked over the election - what will turnout be, will Sarkozy come in first, what about the centrist voters, will Mélenchon beat Marine Le Pen into third place, and are there enough voices on the left to win it? La Croix says low turnout is the biggest worry - and the reasons is that the candidates are too boring. Le Figaro is stll inspired by their candidate, of course - headlining on Sarkozy's advantages against Hollande.
####2012 April 10####French election campaign officially kicks off####Campaigning for the French Presidential election officially kicks off but candidates are not allowed to insult each other and they must each have equal air time under French law. Next, France's top court may overturn a verdict against oil giant Total for a devastating spill off the coast of Brittany. Finally, move over Mona Lisa… Cinderella steals the limelight as Disneyland Paris becomes Europe's top tourist destination.
####2012 April 11####Sarkozy and the suburbs - from the Marshall Plan to the Karcher####France's run-down "banlieues" (suburbs) haven't exactly made headlines during this election campaign - but with both Hollande and Sarkozy visiting them in the last few days, the leading candidates are making a last-minute bid for those voters.
####2012 April 11####'Voters don't decide until the last minute'####In today's papers - French presidential candidates are trying to grab as much front page attention as possible with just 11 days to go before the first round.Le Parisien puts François Hollande on the front cover - facing a panel of their readers, while Le Figaro opts for Sarkozy's spokeswoman Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, and Liberation for François Bayrou - who says the other two candidates are lying.
####2012 April 12####Sarkozy, or chaos!####Nicolas Sarkozy says if France doesn't re-elect him, it will follow Greece and Spain to bankruptcy. We look at how that has gone down with voters.
####2012 April 12####'The voters are right, whatever they decide'####With ten days to go until the first round of the French poll, last-minute campaigning fills the front pages, alongside the death of French Resistance hero Raymond Aubrac.Nicolas Sarkozy gets quizzed by Libération's readers - on his favourite book and whether he supposrts school uniform - while La Croix reports that a massive 77% of readers support his policy of imposing protectionist tariffs on foreign imports. Liberation and L'Humanité both healdine on the death of Raymond Aubrac - a hero of the French Resistance.
####2012 April 12####French Elections: Hollande for president?####Will France soon have a Socialist president for the first time since 1988? There are now only ten days to go before we will know who will come out on top in round one of the presidential elections.On the set: Philip Turle, Journalist, RFI; Jean-Marc Gonin, Senior Writer, Le Figaro Magazine.
####2012 April 12####French presidential rivals spar over markets####Socialist candidate François Hollande accused French President Nicolas Sarkozy on Thursday of encouraging market speculation to gain votes. Sarkozy meanwhile threatened that markets would dump French securities if Hollande were to win on May 6.REUTERS - Socialist presidential frontrunner Francois Hollande accused Nicolas Sarkozy on Thursday of encouraging market speculation for electoral gain, after the president said victory for Hollande could spur a crisis of confidence in France. The exchange came as another opinion poll by the LH2 agency showed Hollande winning the coming duel with Sarkozy. With tensions between the two rivals mounting 10 days before the first presidential election round on April 22, Sarkozy has warned that markets could take flight from French securities if Hollande wins power in a May 6 runoff. “The people do not want to have some kind of diktat imposed on them from outside, so when Nicolas Sarkozy tries to call the markets to come to his rescue, that is not in the country’s interest,” Hollande said on France 2 television. “What is in France’s interest is fighting speculation, not encouraging it under the pretext of helping him in the presidential election.” Sarkozy - whose main asset in a close-fought duel against the popular but inexperienced Hollande is his record of managing Europe’s debt crisis - has increasingly played on fears that France under a left-wing government committed to raising spending could lose investor confidence. Unveiling his manifesto last week, he said Hollande would lead France towards the fate of Greece or Spain. Hollande is running on a tax-and-spend programme which he says would bring France to a balanced budget a year later than Sarkozy’s manifesto. Economists say Hollande’s spending plans would need to be scaled back to keep France’s efforts to reduce its deficit on track. The targets are seen as crucial to Paris retaining investor faith at a time when the euro zone debt crisis refuses to abate. “If we start hiring civil servants, if we will start spending again, if we throw the pension reform into question, it’s not a risk that interest rates will rise, it’s a certainty,” Sarkozy said on Wednesday. “It would immediately set off a crisis of confidence.” Battle for markets In a research note, UBS Global Asset Management analysts highlighted the weakness in France’s public finances, saying the country no longer deserved to be considered part of the euro zone’s core countries, a category that includes Germany. Nomura chief political analyst Alastair Newton said that deepening market concerns about Spain and Italy could quickly spill over onto France if Hollande wins May’s final vote. France, which has not balanced a budget since 1974, lost its AAA credit rating with Standard & Poor’s in January and its public finances are still under scrutiny by market analysts. “A ratings agency downgrade is a high probability, though that is not the end of the world, as soon as Francois Hollande would move on Nicolas Sarkozy’s pension reform,” said Newton. Hollande is running as many as 10 percentage points ahead of the incumbent in opinion polls for a May 6 deciding round, although Sarkozy recently nudged ahead in voter surveys for the first-round vote between 10 candidates. An LH2 poll published on Thursday showed Hollande winning a runoff with 55 percent of the vote to 45 percent for Sarkoy, and said the number of people whose voting plans were set in stone was now just short of 90 percent. Recent polls suggest the modest gains Sarkozy made in the last couple of weeks are now petering out. Sarkozy’s effort to persuade voters he is the best man to lead an economic recovery suffered a setback this week when a survey showed growth stalling. He spoke on Friday to U.S. president Barack Obama, who also faces an election this year, about international issues. “Busy times,” said Obama, who went on to say he admired his counterpart’s battle for re-election, according to an official readout of the video conference call between the two men. To which Sarkozy replied in English: “We will win. You and me.”  
####2012 April 12####Presidential Election: The final countdown####There are now only ten days left before round one of the French presidential election. It's the final stretch in a gruelling campaign - the candidates are exhausted but still lining up rallies and interviews. It's time for the French to make up their minds, although the latest opinion polls show little change, with François Hollande still the favourite.On the set: Fabienne Keller, UMP Senator, Member of the delegation of the European Union; Jérôme Guedj, Member, Socialist Party National Bureau; Mathieu Doiret, IPSOS polling Institute.
####2012 April 13####Sarkozy turns back on 'Anglo-Saxon model'####Once known as "Sarkozy the American" for his support of liberal economics, the French president has accused Britain's Financial Times of blindly advocating an "Anglo-Saxon model" in its criticism of his economic policies.AFP - French President Nicolas Sarkozy, in the midst of a re-election campaign, has taken aim at the British Financial Times daily, accusing it of blindly supporting the "Anglo-Saxon model" of economics. "They don't agree with me, which I really rejoice in that, you know, because I don't agree with them," Sarkozy said during a television debate Thursday on France 2. "The FT, as they say in informed circles, has always defended the Anglo-Saxon model, considering the French incorrigible and that we would do better to align ourselves to the Anglo-Saxon model," he added. Sarkozy faces a tough fight against French Socialist presidential frontrunner Francois Hollande over two rounds of voting on April 22 and May 6. "The FT has thought for many years that the solution for the world is that there should be no law... I think exactly the opposite," Sarkozy said. "The FT explains to us that it is necessary to act exactly like Britain, which is in a far worse economic situation than France." His comments came after the Financial Times published a piece headlined "Broken promises come back to haunt Sarkozy." In it the paper said that the French president's promises to raise spending power and create more jobs "are now being thrown back in his face as broken promises".
####2012 April 13####The World This Week - April 13th, 2012####Amid the scramble to stop the killing in Syria, François Picard’s panel weighs up what’s billed as the only plan in town. Also, the "tax the rich" mantra gains traction in both the French and US election races, and why one century on, the sinking of the Titanic still resonates.Janine DI GIOVANNI. Paris-based reporter. Author, "Ghosts by Daylight"; Ammar ABD RABBO. Freelance journalist and photographer; Stefan DE VRIES. Paris correspondent, RTL4; Judah GRUNSTEIN. Editor-in-Chief, World Politics Review. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Paul Maakad. Watch the second part here. 
####2012 April 13####The World This Week - April 13th, 2012 (part 2)####Amid the scramble to stop the killing in Syria, François Picard’s panel weighs up what’s billed as the only plan in town. Also, the "tax the rich" mantra gains traction in both the French and US election races, and why one century on, the sinking of the Titanic still resonates.Janine DI GIOVANNI. Paris-based reporter. Author, "Ghosts by Daylight"; Ammar ABD RABBO. Freelance journalist and photographer; Stefan DE VRIES. Paris correspondent, RTL4; Judah GRUNSTEIN. Editor-in-Chief, World Politics Review. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Paul Maakad. Watch the first part here.
####2012 April 14####Melenchon kicks off key rallies in Marseille####Communist-backed firebrand Jean-Luc Melenchon gathered thousands of supporters in Marseille Saturday, kicking off a weekend of key rallies before first-round voting on April 22. The leftist is currently showing third after a surge in the polls.AFP - Firebrand leftist Jean-Luc Melenchon gathered thousands of supporters in Marseille on Saturday, on a weekend of rallies before the first round of France's presidential vote. Communist-backed Melenchon, who has shaken up the vote with a surge in the polls, will be hoping for a repeat of rallies in Paris and Toulouse that were the biggest of the campaign, drawing tens of thousands onto the streets. Sunday will then see the Socialist frontrunner, Francois Hollande, whose confidence was boosted this week as polls showed him cementing his lead, and incumbent right-winger President Nicolas Sarkozy hold rival Paris events. Ahead of his beachfront rally, Melenchon joked on his blog that the two leading candidates were stealing a page from his playbook and "will now also occupy the streets and risk appearing in public squares". The Left Front's Melenchon, who two polls Friday showed either tied or ahead of the far-right's Marine Le Pen in third place, has struck a chord with his virulent attacks on France's rich elite and EU-backed austerity measures. On Sunday, Hollande and Sarkozy will be looking to recreate some of the fervour that has marked Melenchon's campaign, as they compete to draw crowds and media coverage at opposite sides of the capital Sarkozy has called on supporters to gather in Paris's iconic Place de la Concorde while Hollande has summoned his backers to a concert outside the Chateau de Vincennes in working-class eastern Paris. The first round of voting in a two-stage battle begins on April 22, and the race entered its final week with Hollande riding a wave of confidence. He had seen his lead over right-wing Sarkozy narrow slightly in recent weeks, but the incumbent's late surge has not altered pollsters' predictions and the left remains on course for victory in the May 6 run-off. Two polls published Friday by CSA and TNS-Sofres showed Hollande winning the first round with 27 or 28 percent of the vote, ahead of Sarkozy with 26 percent in both polls. They predicted Hollande would also win a clear victory in the May 6 run-off vote, with 56 or 57 percent of the vote. Other recent polls have shown Sarkozy ahead in the first round, but Hollande has enjoyed a consistent second-round lead in voting intentions since he won the Socialist primary in October and remains the clear favourite. "We're going to win!" Hollande declared on Thursday night at a rally, only to correct himself the next morning when reporters asked about this newfound self-confidence: "We can win. There's your new slogan." Sarkozy has lashed out at Hollande's tax-and-spend platform, warning that his victory would spark a crisis in investor confidence and a speculative attack on the euro that would bring France "to its knees". Campaigning Friday in Corsica, Sarkozy urged voters to back him "for the future of the country" and warned that Hollande would govern only to please the left. "A president of the republic must be the president of those who voted for him and of those who did not. That's the difference between me and Mr Hollande," Sarkozy said. Analysts say 60-year-old former Socialist Melenchon's advance has kept predictions for Hollande's first-round score low but that most of his supporters are expected to swing to the centre-leftist before the run-off. The two-week campaign between the two rounds is expected to be fierce, when the frontrunners go head-to-head and broadcasters will no longer be forced by law to accord equal time to outsider candidates. Le Pen, new leader of her father Jean-Marie Le Pen's anti-immigrant, anti-EU National Front is also to hold a rally in Paris on Tuesday as she seeks to revive a campaign that has been overshadowed by Melenchon's surge. And centrist Francois Bayrou, a one-time contender for third who is now stuck at about 10 percent in the polls, will hold a rally on Sunday in Marseille as he ends a campaign tour of major French cities.
####2012 April 15####France’s suburbs a dim memory in presidential election####Formerly a topic of national debate and a key issue in France’s 2007 presidential elections, the country’s neglected suburbs appear to have been all but forgotten this time around.Once a topic of national debate and a hot-button issue during France’s last presidential elections, the banlieues, or suburbs, appear to have been all but forgotten in the final week of campaigning ahead of the first round of voting in the presidential ballot on April 22. France’s main presidential candidates have taken a cursory interest at best in the banlieues, making slapdash appearances in some of the country’s most disadvantaged neighbourhoods in recent weeks. In a whirlwind tour, Socialist Party candidate François Hollande crammed visits to Lyon suburb Vaulx-en-Velin along with a number of Paris’ northern banlieues into a 48-hour period on April 5 and 6. Following his rival’s lead, incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy made a brief stopover in Paris’ northern suburb of Drancy a few days later, on April 10. HOLLANDE IN THE SUBURBS ON THE BLOGS Hollande: 'Vote for me, N****s in Paris!' Centrist François Bayrou was another candidate who made a quick appearance in the banlieues, spending a total of four hours in Mantes-la-Jolie to the northwest of Paris, to “dialogue with a suburb that is never spoken of” in early March. Meanwhile, Marine Le Pen, candidate for France’s far-right National Front (FN) party, has applauded her own decision not to visit the suburbs, arguing that “the majority of the population live in rural regions”. “Suburban neighbourhoods have everything: televisions, cameras and billions of euros in public funding”, Le Pen told the French Senate’s public television channel on April 10. The lacklustre attention paid to France’s banlieues thus far in the campaign deeply contrasts with the last presidential elections in 2007, when the issue took centre stage after widespread rioting in the suburbs two years before scarred the country’s collective consciousness. 2005 riots The rioting touched off in October 2005 after Zyed Benna, 17, and Bouna Traore, 15, were electrocuted after climbing into an electrical sub-station while fleeing police in Paris’ northern suburb of Clichy-sous-Bois. The incident sparked outrage, prompting herds of angry youths to take to the streets, most memorably leaving a trail of burnt cars in their wake. Sarkozy, who was interior minister at the time, took a hardline stance on the riots, which took around three weeks to subdue. On November 11, while discussing the “crisis” on the television channel France 2, Sarkozy notoriously referred to youth in the suburbs as “racaille”, or riffraff. Although long past, the riots and the issues they had raised were still fresh in people’s minds two years later in 2007 as the presidential elections began to heat up. Candidates from across the spectrum clamoured to propose plans on how to improve conditions in some of the country’s most impoverished regions. Having played a pivotal role during the riots, Sarkozy leapt at the opportunity to transform the issue into a key tenet of his campaign by promising to implement a “Marshall Plan” in the suburbs if elected. New priorities Yet five years later, as Sarkozy stands for a second term in France’s swiftly approaching presidential elections, his Marshall Plan has all but been forgotten and the suburbs, which are home to seven percent of the country’s population, have faded into the background. According to a February 2012 study by the French polling centre Ifop, 76 percent of voters said unemployment was the most important issue facing the country in the coming months, while 58 percent cited purchasing power and 57 percent voiced concerns about health. Of the 12 themes ranked in the study, improving the country’s suburbs came in last with only 29 percent. “The crisis has moved on from there”, said Henri Rey, director of Cevipof, the centre of political research at Sciences Po. “Five years ago, the campaign was focused on issues such as immigration and security. Today, considering the current economic climate, it’s logical that French people are more concerned by employment, in particular youth employment. So of course it is logical that the candidates would also reevaluate their priorities”. According to Rey, who has studied France’s suburbs for the last 30 years, the issue hasn’t been altogether forgotten, but politicians now tend to approach the issue from a different angle. Instead of attacking the subject head on, presidential hopefuls now visit disadvantaged areas where they attempt to cultivate support with promises of reforms in areas such as employment and education. For example, Hollande has announced plans to create 150,000 jobs in the future, saying that priority will be given to the country’s working-class neighbourhoods. He has also proposed to exempt businesses that hire people from disadvantaged neighbourhoods from certain operating fees. Sarkozy has also touched upon the subject, saying he feels “heavily involved” with the issue. He has pledged to pour an additional 18 billion euros into urban renewal efforts. The proposal would be the second phase of a 2003 plan overseen by French politician Jean-Louis Borloo, which has invested more than 40 billion euros to be spent over ten years into 460 different areas. Traditionally left-leaning Despite mild attempts to reach out to people in the suburbs, Rey says that ultimately, they are not considered a key demographic to win over because their vote has been traditionally anchored to the Left. “It’s true that François Hollande has inspired substantially less enthusiasm [in the suburbs] than Ségolène Royal did in 2007, but people continue to hold up the tradition of voting for a socialist candidate”, Rey said. “Even far-left candidates stand little chance of getting into the game”, he added. France’s disenfranchised youth ON THE BLOGS Welcome to the ‘Ministry of Suburbs’ Sarkozy, in particular, may stand little hope of making any gains. Many regard his record of involvement in the suburbs with mixed feelings, after his so-called “Marshall Plan” was buried after the junior minister of urban policy, Fadela Amara, left his government in 2010. Amara’s departure also spelled the death of Sarkozy’s urban renewal plans. Abdel Elotmami, member of AcleFeu, a community organisation that was founded after the riots in 2005, described Sarkozy’s efforts at urban renewal as little more than “a fresh layer of paint to hide the misery”. Elotmami went on to say that Sarkozy’s failure to garner support in the suburbs is in part due to the fact that few have been able to turn the page on his harsh reaction to the 2005 riots. But overall, Elotamami doesn’t find any of the presidential candidates very appealing. Instead, he has placed his faith in local elections slated to be held in 2014. “People here now understand that they can be both authors and actors in the political scene”, Elotamami said.  
####2012 April 15####In Paris, rival rallies tell two tales of one country####French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist rival François Hollande have held duelling rallies in Paris one week before polling day, with the incumbent running out of time in his bid to pull off the greatest turnaround in modern French politics.Xavier’s face broke into a grin as the train crawled into Concorde underground station packed with scores of people bearing the blue, white and red flag of France. “Watch out, two Frances are about to cross paths!” warned the young Parisian wrapped in a red scarf as he prepared to board the train. While he and his friends were on their way to Vincennes Castle in eastern Paris, where Socialist presidential candidate François Hollande was holding a campaign rally, the flag-bearing crowd had reached their destination: President Nicolas Sarkozy’s own rally on Place de la Concorde. PRESS REVIEW FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy’s big speech gets no love from French press With just one week to go before the first round of voting on April 22, the two main contenders for the French presidency were both hoping to trump the other by staging the biggest show in town. And to add to the logistical nightmare for police, they picked the same day as the Paris marathon. Uphill struggle For the 40,000 runners taking part in the gruelling 42.2-kilometre race, Place de la Concorde barely marked the beginning of their ordeal. But for the French president, Sunday's gathering on the iconic square signalled the final stretch of an increasingly uphill struggle. According to the latest opinion polls, Sarkozy is likely to match his Socialist rival in the first round of voting but would lose by as much as 10 percentage points should the two go face to face in a run-off on May 6. Until earlier this week, Sarkozy’s camp had hailed his slow but steady rise in surveys. But that trend has stalled and the president's supporters have reverted to dismissing opinion polls as inaccurate. “The polling institutes have got it wrong and the media keep spreading their lies,” said 74-year-old Monique from the Mediterranean port of Toulon, who had reached Paris on one of a dozen special trains rented for the occasion by Sarkozy’s UMP party. The Concorde rally in pictures But some on Place de la Concorde were more sceptical of the president’s chances, acknowledging that Sarkozy’s campaign had so far failed to produce a clear message that could help turn the tide. “We are itching to tell the French we have saved them from economic crisis – which we have. And yet we also need to warn that the country is still on the edge of the abyss and that the Socialists will simply push it over the brink,” said one party member who declined to be named. Liberty or equality "You want the left, you will get Greece," Sarkozy had warned French voters in recent days. But on Sunday, he urged the crowd not to live in “fear of defeat”. "You are the true France!" he told his tricolour-bearing supporters, many of them elderly, in a speech crammed with references to the great figures and battles of French history. By choosing the Place de la Concorde, a gateway to the French capital’s affluent west, Sarkozy hoped to evoke memories of mass rallies there in favour of conservative icons Charles de Gaulle and Jacques Chirac, as well as his own victory parade in the happier days of May 2007. “Since then the Sarkozy brand has lost some of its shine, but he is still the best man to pull us out of crisis,” said retired shopkeeper Pierre Boeuf, who had left the foothills of the Pyrenees at 5am to attend the rally in Paris. Others felt the incumbent president was simply closer to their values. Pascale Le Roy, a former banker, said she agreed with Sarkozy that the first of the three words in the French Republic’s motto – liberty, equality, fraternity – was the most important, “whereas most Socialists would opt for the second”. Moments earlier, the French president had warned to rapturous applause that he would "never accept an egalitarian, levelled-out France that turns its back on talent because it fears it". Nearby, an enthusiastic group of business students said they would vote for the incumbent because he would “put lazy Frenchmen back to work”. For them, Sarkozy’s problem was merely one of image. “The French simply don’t like him. It’s personal. They are still making him pay for the early mistakes that earned him the ‘bling-bling’ tag.” Sarko weariness Most Socialists, perhaps including Hollande himself, would agree with that assessment. Back in February, while discussing his encounters on the campaign trail in an interview with the British press, Hollande admitted he had met far more people who wanted Sarkozy out than people who wanted the Socialist candidate in. Before boarding his train for Vincennes on Sunday, Xavier said the two objectives were intertwined. “We definitely want to see an end to Sarkozy’s rule, but we also believe in the current Socialist project and its emphasis on fiscal fairness,” he said. Hollande has pledged to balance France's budget by 2017, one year after Sarkozy, in part by raising taxes on the country's largest companies and the highest earners. Among his supporters in Vincennes, a visibly more diverse crowd gathered in the staunchly left-wing east of Paris, some said they longed for an end to what they regarded as Sarkozy's growing anti-immigration stance. In the end, Sunday’s duel appeared to end in a draw with both camps proclaiming – somewhat optimistically – that they had pooled more than a hundred thousand supporters. But the festive nature of Hollande’s rally underscored the growing confidence in the Socialist camp that they have the best chance in decades of improving their dismal record in presidential elections. Had they been in need of further comfort, they might have pointed out that Place de la Concorde is also where one ill-fated French ruler and his reviled wife were brought to the guillotine all those years ago. Supporters of socialist challenger Francois Hollande rally in eastern Paris With just one week to go before polls open in France's presidential election, the two leading contenders staged their biggest shows yet in the French capital. Supporters of Socialist candidate François Hollande rallied outside the Chateau de Vincennes. Photo: M.Chebil Tens of thousands of people filled the esplanade facing the Chateau de Vincennes in eastern Paris. Hollande's campaign staff claimed that some 100,000 people attended the rally, but no official figures have been released. Photo: Mehdi Chebil Kané (left), a 32-year-old French worker of Mauritanian descent, said he was concerned about Nicolas Sarkozy's ruling UMP party drifting further to the right with its growing anti-immigration stance. Photo: Mehdi Chebil François Hollande called for a "festive" gathering and dozens of militants heeded his call, starting the rally with a picnic outside the castle in Vincennes. Photo: Mehdi Chebil Cecile came from the town of Cognac in western France to back François Hollande: "I want to relive 1981," said the 60-year-old pensioner, recalling the first time a Socialist candidate, François Mitterand, was elected as France's president. Photo: Mehdi Chebil "I'm not a member of the Socialist party but I back Hollande and I came to see a show of strength and solidarity," said Evelyne, a teacher from the southern city of Toulon. Photo: Mehdi Chebil The rally's festive atmosphere was reflected in the French Caribbean tunes of zouk singer Jacob Desvarieux. Socialist supporters were treated to an hour-long concert before François Hollande addressed the crowd. Photo: Mehdi Chebil Supporters of Hollande feel emboldened by the Socialist candidate's commanding lead in all recent opinion surveys. © Mehdi Chebil Paris mayor Bertrand Delanoe, a Socialist, was the first senior politician to address the crowd. In his speech, he recalled how he wrestled control of the French capital from the conservatives in 2001. Photo: Mehdi Chebil The crowd erupted into cheering when Hollande eventually appeared on stage. A key objective of the Socialist rally was to create a sense of enthusiasm around his candidacy in a bid to dismiss claims that people support him only to oust Sarkozy. Photo: Mehdi Chebil François Hollande insisted that he was the only candidate from the left who could win the presidential election, a barely disguised call to supporters of left-wing rival Jean-Luc Mélenchon to back the Socialists in the vote's first round. Photo: Mehdi Chebil Pierre (centre) came from a northern suburb of Paris to get a glimpse of the man he believes will become France's next president. Photo: Mehdi Chebil “Victory will be ours next Sunday (…) Nothing will prevent us from winning”, concluded François Hollande in front of an ecstatic crowd of supporters. Photo: Mehdi Chebil
####2012 April 16####Sarkozy wows the crowds, but keeps an eye on his watch####We follow the candidates on the campaign trail, as Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande rally the crowds in Paris. And far-left candidate Philippe Poutou makes a gaffe on French television as he lays into billionaire CEOs, including the owner of the channel he's appearing on...
####2012 April 16####A very French campaign####On the final weekend of the campaign, Nicolas Sarkozy comes up with a last-minute surprise. Will his call to reform the European Central Bank inspire disenchanted voters? François Picard’s panel weighs up a high-stakes, low enthusiasm French election campaign.Aude BARON. Chief Editor, 'Le Plus' of Nouvel Observateur; Jacqueline HÉNARD. Journalist and writer; Thomas HOUDAILLE. Secretary General, Europanova; Guntram B. WOLFF. Deputy Director, Bruegel (from Brussels). Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Cristopher Davis, Pauline Heilmann. Watch the second part here.
####2012 April 16####A very French campaign (part 2)####On the final weekend of the campaign, Nicolas Sarkozy comes up with a last-minute surprise. Will his call to reform the European Central Bank inspire disenchanted voters? François Picard’s panel weighs up a high-stakes, low enthusiasm French election campaign.Aude BARON. Chief Editor, 'Le Plus' of Nouvel Observateur; Jacqueline HÉNARD. Journalist and writer; Thomas HOUDAILLE. Secretary General, Europanova; Guntram B. WOLFF. Deputy Director, Bruegel (from Brussels). Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Cristopher Davis, Pauline Heilmann. Watch the first part here.
####2012 April 16####The war of the rallies####It's the tale of one France against another - Sarkozy's appeal to save France from economic chaos, versus Hollande's attack on entrenched privileges. But are they preaching to anyone but the converted?
####2012 April 16####Sarkozy’s big speech gets no love from French press####Reviews of President Sarkozy’s campaign speech in the French press have been largely scathing. Many editorialists are characterising his address as a deceptive, desperate bid to turn around what looks to be an uphill battle for re-election.On Sunday, April 16, the two leading French presidential candidates, centre-right incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist challenger François Hollande, held dueling campaign rallies in Paris. But on Monday morning, France’s reporters and editorialists mostly seemed to have one man on their radar: Sarkozy, the politician once frequently praised as dynamic and even transformative, now fighting an uphill battle to stay in office. The Concorde rally in pictures Indeed, the French press featured mostly sceptical reviews of Sarkozy’s speech, which he delivered at Paris’s iconic Place de la Concorde. ‘Lyrical and forward-looking’ or ‘nonsensical and inert’? France’s main left-leaning newspaper, Libération, did not mince its words. “Sarkozy displayed a childishness that suggested his current vulnerability,” the publication known as “Libé” said. “He presented himself as the heir to both Napoleon and De Gaulle, a double posture that captured the essence of his campaign: nonsensical and inert.” Far-left daily L’Humanité was even more scathing, referring to Sarkozy’s first terms as a period of “destruction” and describing his speech as an instance of “Dr. Jekyll forgetting his Mr. Hyde, a candidate’s words indicating amnesia about a president’s acts”. Right-leaning daily newspaper Le Figaro was a notable exception to the anti-Sarkozy voices, publishing an editorial that characterised the president’s address as “rich, lyrical, and forward-looking”. In a thinly veiled swipe at Hollande, Le Figaro noted that “Unlike his rival, who indulged in anti-Sarkozy rhetoric, [the president] did not once mention the Socialist candidate’s name or mock his policy proposals.” Losing the ‘image war’ Some of France’s regional press was comparatively measured in their assessment of the president’s performance. Le Telegramme, a daily from the northwestern region of Brittany, deemed Sarkozy’s “objective achieved”. “In an election that has seen him weakened by the economic crisis and certain behavioural missteps that his opponents have not hesitated to seize upon,” the newspaper read, “the president looked like a survivor, constantly obligated to fight his way back to the surface and avoid being drowned.” As for Hollande, the candidate was better, according to The Telegramme, than Sarkozy at communicating compassion, thanks in part to “his friendly face and hoarse voice”. Southern newspaper Le Sud-Ouest agreed that Sarkozy “has lost the image war”, noting that after his speech, Sarkozy could be spotted “hastily shaking hands, as if he were in a rush to get out of there”. Western French daily, Ouest-France, was more severe with the contents of the sitting president’s speech. The publication’s editorial concluded that “instead of daring to tell the truth, all [Sarkozy] gave us was symbolism, carefully selected bits of information, and caricature….as if our future did not depend on this election”. Northern newspaper Paris-Normandie criticised both of the leading presidential candidates for what the publication described as a day of political grandstanding: “It’s beginning to look like a school yard during recess”, with “two blowhards…going a bit overboard”, an editorial read. Supporters of socialist challenger Francois Hollande rally in eastern Paris With just one week to go before polls open in France's presidential election, the two leading contenders staged their biggest shows yet in the French capital. Supporters of Socialist candidate François Hollande rallied outside the Chateau de Vincennes. Photo: M.Chebil Tens of thousands of people filled the esplanade facing the Chateau de Vincennes in eastern Paris. Hollande's campaign staff claimed that some 100,000 people attended the rally, but no official figures have been released. Photo: Mehdi Chebil Kané (left), a 32-year-old French worker of Mauritanian descent, said he was concerned about Nicolas Sarkozy's ruling UMP party drifting further to the right with its growing anti-immigration stance. Photo: Mehdi Chebil François Hollande called for a "festive" gathering and dozens of militants heeded his call, starting the rally with a picnic outside the castle in Vincennes. Photo: Mehdi Chebil Cecile came from the town of Cognac in western France to back François Hollande: "I want to relive 1981," said the 60-year-old pensioner, recalling the first time a Socialist candidate, François Mitterand, was elected as France's president. Photo: Mehdi Chebil "I'm not a member of the Socialist party but I back Hollande and I came to see a show of strength and solidarity," said Evelyne, a teacher from the southern city of Toulon. Photo: Mehdi Chebil The rally's festive atmosphere was reflected in the French Caribbean tunes of zouk singer Jacob Desvarieux. Socialist supporters were treated to an hour-long concert before François Hollande addressed the crowd. Photo: Mehdi Chebil Supporters of Hollande feel emboldened by the Socialist candidate's commanding lead in all recent opinion surveys. © Mehdi Chebil Paris mayor Bertrand Delanoe, a Socialist, was the first senior politician to address the crowd. In his speech, he recalled how he wrestled control of the French capital from the conservatives in 2001. Photo: Mehdi Chebil The crowd erupted into cheering when Hollande eventually appeared on stage. A key objective of the Socialist rally was to create a sense of enthusiasm around his candidacy in a bid to dismiss claims that people support him only to oust Sarkozy. Photo: Mehdi Chebil François Hollande insisted that he was the only candidate from the left who could win the presidential election, a barely disguised call to supporters of left-wing rival Jean-Luc Mélenchon to back the Socialists in the vote's first round. Photo: Mehdi Chebil Pierre (centre) came from a northern suburb of Paris to get a glimpse of the man he believes will become France's next president. Photo: Mehdi Chebil “Victory will be ours next Sunday (…) Nothing will prevent us from winning”, concluded François Hollande in front of an ecstatic crowd of supporters. Photo: Mehdi Chebil  
####2012 April 16####A tale of two countries####It's the war of the meetings in today's papers - with just 6 days to go before the first round of the election, both Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande held major open-air rallies yesterday.Le Parisien calls the result of yesterday's war of meetings a dead heat - at least in terms of numbers - while Le Figaro clearly proclaims the victory of its champion Nicolas Sarkozy. Liberation is equally partisan - they say the rally yesterday can't hide the cracks in the president's re-election campaign.
####2012 April 17####The forgotten campaign themes####The subjects missing from the campaign - health insurance, justice, poverty and care for the elderly - are the focus of today's French press review, as some of the papers try to put them in the spotlight.Liberation is focusing on the themes candidates have nothing to say about - but voters do. Le Parisien and Le Monde both look at the voters who still haven't made up their minds - a full 22%, apparently.
####2012 April 17####Election day tweeting is a risky business####Is a Tweet a private message or a public posting? If it's the latter, social media users could face huge fines if they break the 8 pm embargo law on predicting the French election results this Sunday. Next, a year after 63 refugees from Africa died in a stranded boat off the Libyan coast, four survivors are accusing the French army of having abandoned them. Finally, an exhibit of Doisneau's iconic photographs offers a glimpse into the capital's past.
####2012 April 17####'Clan Chirac' snubs Sarkozy####A former right-wing environment minister urges voters to back the Socialist Party's candidate François Hollande. And members of the Chirac family are opting openly - or almost - to do the same. Meanwhile, Marine Le Pen lambasts what she sees as the cosy relationship between some of France's journalists and the political elite. That's the focus for Tuesday, 17th April 2012.
####2012 April 17####Still haven't decided who to vote for? Neither have 22% of the French####In today's Campaign Chronicles, we look at the 22% of French voters who still haven't made up their minds who to vote for - and the candidates' last-minute tactics for winning them over.
####2012 April 18####What about the second round?####We have a look forward in today's show to what the candidates are reportedly planning for after the first round of the election - and we discuss why they still haven't sealed the deal with so many voters.
####2012 April 18####Is François Bayrou irrelevant?####Today's papers look at the scramble to get centrist's candidate Bayrou's endorsement - and his plan for between the two rounds.Le Figaro says he may be low in the polls, but if there are any voters who are still going to change their minds, it's François Bayrou's, and both Sarkozy and Hollande are after his endorsement. La Canard Enchaîné thinks it knows what both Bayrou and Mélenchon's secret plans for the second round are.
####2012 April 18####Far right rallies faithful against EU, immigration####France's Marine Le Pen targeted banks, "stupid" EU technocrats and vowed to cut immigration by 90% while calling for greater sovereignty for France at a Tuesday rally. Polls put the far-right leader in third place ahead of the April 22 first round.REUTERS - French far-right chief Marine Le Pen hit out at banks, immigrants and "stupid" EU bureaucrats at a rally on Tuesday, whipping up nationalist fervour as she fights for third position in polls before France's presidential election. With the first round of the two-stage election looming on Sunday, Le Pen called on supporters at her largest campaign meeting to date to "shout" their rage over the European Union and reassert a muscular French sovereignty. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 In Paris, rival rallies tell two tales of one country The speech, which was broken up by cries of "This is our home!" and "Marine! Marine!", seemed designed to galvanise Le Pen's core backers as she seeks to hold third place in polls ahead of far-left candidate, Jean-Luc Melenchon. "We will not abandon our fates to these stupid technocrats," she said, referring to the European Union officials, as a crowd of supporters waved French flags at a packed concert hall in Paris. "I am the only candidate of the nation." A CSA poll on Tuesday gave Le Pen 17 percent of voting intentions, placing her in third place behind President Nicolas Sarkozy with 25 percent support and Socialist candidate Francois Hollande, ranked first with 29 percent support. All surveys show Hollande, who held a rally in the northern city of Lille at the same time as Le Pen, winning the election run-off round on May 6 against Sarkozy by a wide margin. The CSA poll showed Le Pen two points ahead of Melenchon, who appears to be losing ground to his far-right rival despite a campaign in which he stole the spotlight from mainstream candidates with calls for a "civilian insurrection". Le Pen and Melenchon have both shaped their campaigns around a rejection of Europe's political system, which they blame for speeding the decline of France's industrial base and strangling the domestic job market with austerity measures. France’s disenfranchised youth ON THE BLOGS Welcome to the ‘Ministry of Suburbs’ But while Melenchon says he wants to renegotiate the European Union's governing treaties, Le Pen calls for pulling France out of the euro zone, reinstating France's borders and cutting immigration by 90 percent. "They (the other candidates) are locked in their European box," she said. "Those who claim to want change when their hands are tied by treaties... are liars or incompetent or both." Abandoning her lectern at the end of her speech, Le Pen stood in front of a giant blue background bearing the words "Yes, France!" and told supporters: "Shout your rage, scream your hope - and get moving!"  
####2012 April 18####France's youth still on the fence ahead of vote####Just a few days before the first round of France’s presidential election, many young French people remain undecided as to who they will vote for. That may be because the candidates have done little to court this volatile segment of the electorate.Who to vote for on Sunday April 22 in the first round of France’s hotly awaited presidential election? Many of the country’s young people do not seem to have made up their minds. According to a study carried out in March by polling agency IFOP for the education magazine L’Etudiant, 59% of voters aged 18 to 22 were still unsure of their choice, compared to 32% of the French population at large. One of those young voters, 19-year-old Sheela, is a student at a two-year technical college. “I’m still figuring out who I want to vote for, and a lot of my friends are in the same situation,” she told FRANCE 24. “Not only is this presidential campaign not very exciting, but it’s also hard for us to relate to the proposals put forth by these candidates who don’t seem to be thinking about young people.” That sentiment is echoed by Arnaud, a 23-year-old engineering student. “I have a vague idea of the candidate I want to see advance to the second-round vote, but I’m still giving myself time to come to a final decision,” he said. François Kraus, the head of IFOP’s Opinions and Strategies department, hardly finds young French voters’ indecision surprising. “They’re a less motivated and consistent segment of the electorate, and less sure of their choices,” he noted. A study by French public policy think tank CEVIPOF (The Centre for Political Research at Sciences Po Paris) found that in the 2007 presidential election, as many as 31% of young voters made their choice on election day. High abstention rate Many political analysts think that the uncertainty plaguing young French voters will translate into a high abstention rate this time around. In 2007, 84% of these voters went to the polls for the first-round vote, compared to 70% for the second round (and only 52% for legislative elections). The recent IFOP study found that 39% of young voters polled were planning to stay home for this year’s presidential election. France 24 reports FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 France’s suburbs a dim memory in presidential election To avoid that level of abstention, several French associations have sprung into action with initiatives to register young voters and encourage them to make the trip to their local polling station. One of those is AFEV (Student Association for Solidarity and Education), which aims to fight inequalities in working-class neighbourhoods by building ties between local youth and students. One of the group’s volunteers, 21-year-old Riva Ranaivo has noticed the lack of interest among young voters in certain Parisian suburbs, for example. “People don’t want to talk about politics in the poorer neighbourhoods,” the arts student told FRANCE 24. “Many of them have sworn off voting because they think it’s useless.” Ranaivo partly blames the candidates, who have failed to capture the French youth’s attention or fully address the issues that affect them, like employment, housing, and education, to name a few. “They’re trying to sell us pipe dreams, like [far-left candidate] Jean-Luc Mélenchon’s idea of a 1,700-euro minimum monthly salary or Nicolas Sarkozy’s proposal to allow high school students to obtain driving licenses,” Ranaivo said. “I find them unrealistic." The candidates’ lack of appeal to young voters could potentially pose a big problem on election day, as French people aged 18 to 24 (who number roughly 6 million) make up 13% to 15% of the overall electorate. Right-left division According to the IFOP study, Hollande is the presidential hopeful that young French voters would most likely vote for in the first round (30%, topping Sarkozy’s 28%). “There’s a real right-left split, because the right does well among graduates of the most selective business, management, and public policy schools. Sarkozy also does well among medical and engineering students,” Kraus assessed. “Hollande does better among technical students and those studying humanities.” As for other candidates, the study found that far-left Mélenchon would get 15% of all student votes, whereas far-right National Front candidate Marine Le Pen would get 11%. A different poll, carried out by leading market research firm CSA for daily newspaper Le Monde, surprisingly had Le Pen leading the pack of candidates among young voters with 26% of the vote. Sylvain Crépon, a specialist of the National Front and a researcher at Nanterre University near Paris, offered his perspective on the progression of far-right and far-left candidates among young French people. “The economic crisis produces anxiety and pessimism that pushes young voters to vote for the extreme parties,” he said. “But the two extreme parties draw different types of young voters: the far-left candidate attracts educated and politically engaged youth, while the National Front appeals to young voters without a higher education.” The fervor surrounding Le Pen’s candidacy can also be explained by the candidate’s personality. “She has succeeded in updating the party’s discourse and making it palatable for more people. She’s enjoying considerable popularity among young voters, even those who have no intention of voting for her,” Crépon explained. “That’s the paradox: some young people who actually will vote for her do not approve of her party’s stances on national security or immigration.”  
####2012 April 18####Socialist Hollande wins friends on the left and right####Just days before France goes to the polls for the eagerly anticipated first round of the 2012 presidential elections, Socialist party candidate Francois Hollande has been given some high profile endorsements. But will it help him become president?Francois Hollande has been given some unexpected high profile backing this week in his bid to become the next president of France. With just four days to go before the first round of voting, the 57 year-old Socialist Party candidate holds a slender lead in the polls over his main rival the incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy. And Hollande’s camp has been further boosted by a number of right-wing politicians who have gone on record to profess their intention to vote for the MP for the Correze region. Various former members of Sarkozy’s government have turned against their former leader and joined dozens of economists and sportsmen this week in declaring their support for Hollande. Key backing from former Sarkozy allies Firstly Martin Hirsh, who was tasked with dealing youth and poverty issues between 2007 and 2010, revealed his backing for Hollande followed by Fadela Amara the former secretary of state for urban policy. Amara told Liberation newspaper she would be voting for Hollande and praised him for his “humour”. Amara said she was “deeply touched” by Hollande’s “humanism”. Ex-ministers who served alongside Nicolas Sarkozy under former president Jacques Chirac also dug the knife in to the current president by announcing publicly their intention to vote for Hollande this week. Corinne Lepage, minister for the environment from 1995 to 1997 said she “did not want to see Nicolas Sarkozy reelected” and on Wednesday former minister Azouz Begag issued a thinly veiled personal attack on Sarkozy. Begag, who was in charge of promoting equal opportunities from 2005 to 2007 told Inter France radio station he would be voting for the “anti bling-bling” Hollande. The ex-culture minister Jean-Jacques Ailagon was also pictured standing behind the socialist at his campaign rally in Paris on Sunday. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 In Paris, rival rallies tell two tales of one country But the icing on the cake came when Jean-Luc Barre, who co-authored Jacques Chirac’s memoirs, revealed to BFMTV that the former president’s apparent joke last year that he would vote for Hollande was not in fact a gag. “I saw him days ago and he told me he would be voting for Francois Hollande,” Barre said. Economists on side Sarkozy has played on voters’ fears of a worsening financial crisis warning them that their country could end being “the next Greece” if he was not re-elected. Hollande said on Wednesday that he would not endorse the EU finance treaty, championed by Sarkozy, if it does not promote “measures for growth”. Sarkozy would not therefore have been amused to find that 42 of the country’s top economists wrote an open letter endorsing the recovery plan of Hollande. Laurence Parisot head of the right-leaning employers association MEDEF also went on record saying she agreed with some of Hollande’s ideas. Another influential group falling in behind Hollande are sportsmen with French daily Le Parisian revealing how 100 figures from across the world of sport, all be it many unknown outside France, were prepared to give their support to the man once derided as a “marshmallow”. “We did not have to do any lobbying. It was the sportsmen who came to us,” said Pascal Bonnetain, from Hollande’s campaign team. Little impact The question is whether any of this high profile support will help Francois Hollande come out on top on Sunday and again in the run-off on May 6. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call Eric Bonnet, director of studies at polling agency BVA thinks the deluge of support for Hollande will have minimum impact over voters in Sunday’s first round. “It may help to reassure centrist voters who feel guilty about voting for the left. This might help them take the plunge,” he said. “However the effect may be greater felt during the two rounds of voting and could act as a significant force against Nicolas Sarkozy,” Bonnet said. “The president will seek to attract centrist voters by trying to present Hollande as being on the far left. But if Hollande has the support of centrists Sarkozy’s efforts will be wasted.” Even if the high profile support does not actually help Hollande into the Elysee Palace it all augurs well for his bid to replace Sarkozy, especially with the latest opinion polls making him the clear favourite to win the second vote on May 6. But for political scientist Bonnet it is not yet game, set and match for the Socialist Party candidate. “If Hollande appears to be the clear-favourite, things could yet change before Sunday as his supporters may be less motivated to actually turn out and vote for him,” Bonnet said. For his part, Hollande is refusing to get carried away. He told 10,000 supporters at Tuesday night’s rally in the northern town of Lille to “control their euphoria” until the results are in.  
####2012 April 19####How much of a threat is Marine Le Pen?####With just three days to go before the first round of the election, today's French papers offer you an idiot's guide to all the candidates' manifestos - and ask if Marine Le Pen could cause another upset, like her father in 2002.Le Parisien has an idiot's guide to all ten candidates' policy programmes - to help that quarter of voters whom Le Figaro says still haven't made up their minds. Liberation headlines on the threat of Marine Le Pen - in an unstable and unpredictable election campaign, could she repeat her father's shock result of ten years ago?
####2012 April 19####Presidential Race: Mission impossible for Sarkozy?####The polls look bad and some of his former allies and ministers are abandoning ship. But Nicolas Sarkozy is still convinced he can be re-elected and beat the odds of other European leaders who have been swept away by the economic crisis. What are his chances?On the set: Philip TURLE, Journalist, RFI; Mark DEEN, Journalist, Bloomberg News.
####2012 April 19####France looks back to a future with Marine Le Pen####When it comes to far-right candidate Marine Le Pen, the French vividly remember her father’s 2002 presidential bid, when the National Front's then-leader made it to the second round. But could history repeat itself in Sunday’s vote?With hours to go before the end of campaigning ahead of Sunday’s first round of the presidential vote, French President Nicolas Sarkozy aimed a strike at the blonde, palatably packaged leader of France’s extreme-right National Front party at a rally in the northern French town of Arras Wednesday. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 In Paris, rival rallies tell two tales of one country "The vote for Jean-Marie Le Pen served François Mitterrand, the vote for Marine Le Pen will serve François Hollande,” Sarkozy warned before going on to somewhat unnecessarily add, “I do not want it". Former French President Mitterrand is long dead. The National Front candidate for the 2012 race is Marine Le Pen, the 43-year-old youngest daughter of the 83-year-old party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen, who handed over the party’s reins to his daughter in 2011. Sarkozy’s remark at Wednesday’s rally referred to his ruling centre-right UMP party’s longstanding claim that Mitterrand, a former Socialist president, supported Le Pen senior in a bid to split France’s right-wing vote. In 2012, this nefarious nexus, the argument goes, would ultimately benefit Sarkozy’s main rival, Socialist Party candidate François Hollande. Dead and ageing men walking Evoking dead and ageing men just days ahead of an election may not augur well in most countries. But France is a nation haunted by the political ghosts of the past. As French presidential candidates use the last few hours of campaigning to tout their promises for the future of the country, many political pundits have their eyes set on a presidential election exactly a decade ago. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call Thursday’s edition of the left-leaning paper, Libération, featured a full-page colour cover photo of a confident looking National Front candidate in a signature power suit with the headline, “The Threat: Marine Le Pen could create an unpleasant surprise in Sunday’s first round with a vote comparable to that of her father in 2002.” The year 2002 is a landmark in the history of French politics, the lessons of which have dominated the political discourse for the past ten years. It was in 2002 that then National Front candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen edged out Socialist candidate Lionel Jospin in the first round, getting16.86% of the vote to Jospin’s 16.18%. It was also the first time in French history that a National Front candidate made it to the second round, shocking the nation with the prospect of an extreme-right president. In the second round of the 2002 race, the electorate rallied around Le Pen’s rival, UMP candidate Jacques Chirac, handing him one of the biggest landslides in the history of French politics, with over 82% of the vote. The ‘bad memory’ of 2002 For Libération, a staunch Hollande supporter, a strong showing for Le Pen on Sunday would confirm France’s extreme-right party as a formidable force in the future of French politics. In its editorial, Libération states that Le Pen has been hovering around the 17% mark in the opinion polls, close to the 16.86% her father won in the first round in 2002. The paper acknowledged that Le Pen is probably unlikely to make it to the second round, but it warned that public attention has shifted from Le Pen to the surprise rise of firebrand leftist, Jean-Luc Melenchon. A fiery speaker, Melenchon has struck a chord with many voters in recent weeks with his virulent attacks on France's elite and Sarkozy’s austerity measures. The 60-year-old former Socialist minister has seen his support rise from less than 10 percent at the start of the year to between 13 and 17 percent in recent polls. French political pundits are now riveted by the prospect of a fight between Melenchon and Le Pen for third place in Sunday’s vote. “Even if she does not secure the third place on Sunday, the daughter of the old National Front head will settle permanently in the French political landscape,” said the Libération editorial, which went on to blame Sarkozy for putting the far-right party on the mainstream agenda by incorporating its anti-immigration rhetoric. Critics charge that by putting the spotlight on Le Pen and reinvigorating the spectre of April 2002, the staunchly pro-Socialist daily is seeking to rally the faithful behind Hollande at a time when many are tempted by Melenchon's more extreme brand of left-wing politics. Le Pen herself has blasted the mainstream press for raising the spectre of 2002. Evoking the “bad memory” of 2002, when the left and right stood together against her father, Le Pen has maintained that her “hope and goal” is to make it to the second round. If Libération's warning is anything to go by, that day may yet come. But with just hours to go before Sunday’s poll, all eyes in French political circles are on her battle for third.
####2012 April 19####Row over exit polls engulfs French presidential election####A row has erupted over exit polls as France prepares to vote in the first round of the presidential election on Sunday, with authorities vowing to prosecute anyone who breaks the law against publishing poll results before voting stations close.A row over the publication of exit polls is threatening to mar the run up to the French presidential elections. With less than 24 hours before France goes to the polls in the first round of voting, authorities have issued threats of legal action against anyone who intends to flout a ban on the publication of exit polls. In France, exit polls - which are taken as an accurate reflection of the election result - are available shortly after 6pm when voting stations close in small towns and villages across the country. FRANCE Could Twitter 'undermine' France's presidential vote? But under current rules, French media are barred from publishing the surveys or even partial results until 8pm, the time when voting stations in big cities like Paris and Marseille officially shut. If there is a widespread breach of the ban, France could even face the possibility of the elections being annulled as candidates have the right to call for a revote if they feel electors have been unduly swayed by the leaks. The ban is designed to prevent late voters from being influenced by exit polls which could persuade them to change their preference or even dissuade them from voting at all. But with the advent of social media, many believe the law is outdated and predict the exit polls will inevitably be leaked and published online by some of France’s millions of Twitter and Facebook users. The waters are muddied further because foreign media sites are exempt from the law, and some such as Belgium-based newspaper Le Soir have vowed to do “their journalistic duty” and publish the exit polls as soon as possible. Websites of several Swiss and Belgian newspapers crashed in 2007 under the weight of French online visitors wanting to know the results before their own media had published them. Earlier this week leftwing French daily Liberation added fuel to the fire by insisting it “reserved the right” to publish predicted results of Sunday’s first round vote at 6.30pm. It invited viewers to visit the site at 6.30pm hinting that it would breach the law. "Severely punished" Authorities in France hit back Thursday vowing to fine any media outlet, including social media users, €75,000 if they breach the law. Francois Molins, France’s chief prosecutor warned that those who publish polls or predictions before 8pm “in whatever form” would be prosecuted. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 In Paris, rival rallies tell two tales of one country The dilemma has not been lost on the presidential candidates themselves. Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande waded into the debate Thursday demanding anyone who ignores the law to be “severely punished”. “It will not change the result, but it might mean the turnout is lower,” Hollande said. “It’s a shame because it is more important the elections are legitimate and that there is the highest possible turnout, than it is to know who is going to win.” Hollande believes the problem could be resolved if all polling stations across the country closed at 7pm in future elections. The incumbent president Nicolas Sarkozy, who trails Hollande in the polls, said the laws were outdated and he would not be surprised if they were broken. “This does not shock me, because the world has become a village,” Sarkozy told Europe1 radio station. “We can’t create a digital frontier between France and the rest of the world to prohibit others from communicating with France.” "Law is not trivial" France’s Polling Commission plans to outline the measures it will take against anyone breaching the ban on Friday. “Just because the law is easy to break does not mean it is trivial to do it,” the commission’s secretary general Mattias Guyomar, told Reuters news agency this week. Waddick Doyle, professor of communications at the American University of Paris believes voters would be influenced if they had access to the results. “In the current election in France, people are going to vote strategically,” Waddick told FRANCE 24. “For example, people who would rather vote for the far-left are voting for Francois Hollande simply because they are opposed to Sarkozy winning. If people knew about the results those strategies could change.” Waddick, like Sarkozy, believes the problem lies with “globalisation”. “The French state can no longer control information in the way it used to,” he said. “It may be better to regulate this in some other way."  
####2012 April 19####Presidential Election: Sarkozy and Hollande in pole position####There are now only a few days left before we will know the verdict of the first round of France's presidential election. So who is likely to win the most votes in this first round, and in the run-off two weeks later?On the set: Christopher Dickey, Paris Bureau Chief, Newsweek; Denis Demonpion, Senior Writer, Le Nouvel Observateur Magazine; Bruno Jeanbart, Director of Polling, OpinionWay.
####2012 April 19####Trailing in opinion polls, Sarkozy lashes out at the left####With his Socialist challenger edging ahead in some polls in the run up to Sunday's first-round vote, President Sarkozy predicted a political upset while lashing out at the left Thursday, saying the vote "will teach all those people a lesson".REUTERS - With his back against the wall, President Nicolas Sarkozy brushed off opinion polls that show he will lose France's presidential election to deliver a defiant speech three days from the first round of the vote. The incumbent, who is forecast to lose to Socialist Francois Hollande by some 10 percentage points in a May 6 run-off, chose an affluent suburb of Paris to hold his second-to-last rally before voters head to the polls on Sunday. In a speech that swung between whispers and roars, Sarkozy promised to halve immigration, overhaul France's unemployment scheme and push the European Union to impose tougher conditions on trade with emerging nations. But the main thrust of his rally was an assault on opponents in the media and the so-called Parisian "caviar Left", whom he accused of having decided on the election's outcome before people had cast their votes. "(The vote) will teach all those people a lesson like they have never been taught before," he told some 500 flag-waving supporters, without specifying whether the "lesson" might be his re-election, a higher score than polls give him or something else. "It's nine against one," he said, referring to the field of ten first-round candidates. "But the people of France refuse to be told what to do." Sarkozy, elected in 2007 with 53 percent of votes against Socialist Segolene Royal, is entering the last stretch of his term saddled with an approval rating of just 33 percent and the worst poll scores of any modern French president seeking re-election. A BVA poll published this week gave him 27.5 percent of votes in Sunday's first round, versus 29.5 for Hollande and a crushing 12-point gap for round two at 44 percent, with 56 percent for Hollande. Other first-round opinion polls show Sarkozy neck-and-neck with his main rival or slipping behind him by one or two points, after a brief stretch in which he was seen in first place. As dark clouds gather over Sarkozy's chances hours before a campaign blackout from midnight on Friday, the atmosphere among his supporters on Thursday was a blend of cautious hope, combativeness and defiance against the media. "You journalists should be sitting in the back; you don't deserve to be in front!" one elderly lady shouted at reporters at the rally in Saint-Maurice, a quaint town of 15,000 with a centre-right mayor. Big surprises? While Sarkozy hardens his rhetoric, Hollande has stuck to his slow and steady approach, encouraging left-wing supporters to vote and avoid a repeat of the 2002 election, when the far-right's Jean-Marie Le Pen knocked out former Socialist prime minister Lionel Jospin in the first round, largely due to high abstention. An IFOP poll two weeks ago showed that abstention could be as high as 32 percent on Sunday. Sarkozy, rejected by many French people because of his aggressive tone and embracing of issues normally co-opted by the far-right, showed no sign of rowing back from controversial positions on Muslim symbols like halal meat and full-face veils. But he urged supporters to reject far-right chief Marine Le Pen, polling at 14 percent in the BVA poll. "A vote for Marine Le Pen is as good as a vote for Francois Hollande," he said. "Tipping up the table will not solve any problems." Jean-Marc Alomallo, a 45-year-old male nurse from Paris holding a rolled up French flag outside the rally, said he would vote for Sarkozy on the back of his attitude on immigration. In a campaign taking place against a backdrop of deep anxiety about jobs and the economy, the left-right divide has become sharply polarised, with Le Pen and hard-left leader Jean-Luc Melenchon sharing some 30 percent of the vote. Still, Sarkozy's camp holds out hope of convincing undecided voters, which a study by political science institute CEVIPOF measured at 46 percent in late March, to switch sides. Samia Benkhader, a 38-year-old mother and human resources worker, said she was one of them. "It's true that we get the impression that things are decided in advance... I think there may be a big surprise."  
####2012 April 19####Is electoral law outdated in the age of Twitter?####French law bans anyone from revealing exit polls in this Sunday's presidential election before the polls close at 8pm - but won't social networks reveal all anyway?
####2012 April 20####Moment of truth looms for a 'desperate' Sarkozy####French President Nicolas Sarkozy told supporters on Friday the "moment of truth" had come. But with the first round of the presidential election less than 48 hours away it appears the pressure is beginning to take its toll on the head of state.French President Nicolas Sarkozy chose the last official day of campaigning before Sunday’s first round vote to lash out at election rules - as well as issue an apology to the nation. The incumbent president is under pressure, with most opinion polls showing him trailing behind Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande by up to three points for the first round. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Row over exit polls engulfs French presidential election At his final campaign rally in Nice on Friday evening, the president himself declared that “the moment of truth” had arrived. “This is the moment when the people of France will tell the truth”, he told supporters. But with less than 48 hours to go before polling stations open across France it appears the pressure is beginning to tell on the man the French call “Sarko”. After issuing a vague threat that the election will “teach everyone a lesson” in a speech on Thursday, Sarkozy turned his ire on the rules governing the election. Sarkozy is furious that all 10 candidates in the first round of voting had to be given equal air time by the media during the one month of official campaigning, despite the fact many will only get a tiny percentage of the vote. Chief rivals Sarkozy and Hollande have had to share air time with fringe candidates like the extreme left’s Nathalie Arthaud and Philippe Poutou as well as the eccentric Jacques Cheminade, who wants to create a thermo-nuclear corridor from earth to Mars. “Sarkozy getting desperate” FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call “I have been in a battle, where for the past four weeks it has been me alone against nine other candidates,” Sarkozy complained to the French daily Le Figaro. Insisting the regulations must be changed in future he said: “It will be the last election with these rules because all this leads to is a caricature of our democracy. The rules reflect equality but not the reality.” University College London’s Philippe Marliere believes Sarkozy’s anger is a sign of the President’s increasing “desperation”. “His argument is a bit ironic considering he has been in power for five years with so much media exposure,” said the French politics professor. “The rule is only for a month and it shows all the candidates are equal before the law. It’s like he’s a child complaining about everyone ganging up on him. It really smacks of desperation,” Marliere added. “It’s a sign of someone who knows he is on course to lose.” Others, however, believe the election rules could benefit Sarkozy. Bernard Debré, former minister from Sarkozy’s UMP party believes the coverage given to fringe candidates will help the president. FRANCE Could Twitter 'undermine' France's presidential vote? “The fact there are such absurd candidates could actually reflect well on the president,” Debré said. Second round is a “different story” Despite strong showings from far right candidate Marine Le Pen and the far lefts Jean-Luc Melanchon, the president is still expected to reach the second round run-off vote on May 6. The decisive vote to choose France’s next president will be “a totally different story”, Sarkozy believes. “I will go from having 10 percent of air time to having 50 percent and we will finally face each other, project against project, personality against personality,” he said. Marliere believes Sarkozy must take advantage of his time on television if he is to have any chance of convincing French voters to back him in the crucial run-off vote. “His biggest hope is the live TV debates which are held between the two rounds of voting,” said Marliere. “They are emotionally and politically charged and there will be a chance to take on Hollande because he believes he’s a better debater,” Marliere said. “But it would take Hollande to do or say something extremely foolish or be seen to be totally out of his depth for him to turn it around and I don’t think that will happen.” Asking for forgiveness Sarkozy also showed an air of contrition on his final day of campaigning once again issuing a “mea culpa” for the “mistakes” he made following his election triumph in 2007. He was heavily criticised in the French media in the aftermath of that victory for his perceived flashy lifestyle, which many in France thought unbecoming of a head of state. Pictures of him holidaying on multi-million pound yachts in the Mediterranean and his whirlwind romance with supermodel Carla Bruni earned him the derisive nickname of the ‘bling-bling’ president. After apologising at the start of this year’s election campaign, Sarkozy felt the need to remind the French public on Friday that he deeply regretted his errors. In a contrite interview with RTL radio station he claimed to not have immediately understood “the symbolic dimension of the role of president” and accepted that he had lacked a certain amount of “somberness”. “I will not make the same mistake again, now that I know the job,” he said. With opinion polls showing Hollande holding as much as a 10 point lead over Sarkozy for the run-off vote, the chances of the president being able to make up for his previous mishaps appear ever slimmer.
####2012 April 20####'Does the left scare the financial markets?'####FRENCH PAPERS, Fri. 21/04/12: Nicolas Sarkozy says he’s ready for round two. In an exclusive interview with right-leaning newspaper Le Figaro, the French president says that if his rival François Hollande wins, it will be catastrophic for the French economy. But left-leaning newspaper Libération says the financial markets aren’t scared by the left and have in fact anticipated a Socialist win in both the presidential and parliamentary elections.Get the France 24 press review on your iPhone or become a fan on Facebook.   Some articles from today’s French press review:   LE FIGARO: Interview with Nicolas Sarkozy   LIBERATION: “Does the left scare the markets?”   LE PARISIEN: “Our last poll before the first round”
####2012 April 20####'Made in France' is back####Every year, 10,000 jobs are lost in France and recreated at a lower cost in the Maghreb or in Asia. However, rising oil prices and salaries in developing countries mean that relocating is now a little less attractive. Our reporters went to find out more about the limited comeback of the "made in France" concept.
####2012 April 20####Sarkozy apologises for 'not being solemn enough'####Nicolas Sarkozy apologised ahead of Sunday's first-round vote for failing to grasp the "symbolic" nature of his role as president and for "not being solemn enough". Nicknamed "Bling Bling", Sarkozy has come under fire for his flashy lifestyle.AFP - Nicolas Sarkozy apologised for his mis-steps Friday, the final day of campaigning in France's presidential election, while his main rival Francois Hollande was increasingly confident of victory. The latest polls ahead of Sunday's first round point to a resounding win for the Socialist in the May 6 run-off against Sarkozy, dogged by criticism his flashy and overbearing style lowered the standing of France's head of state. "Perhaps the mistake I made at the start of my mandate is not understanding the symbolic dimension of the president's role and not being solemn enough in my acts," a contrite Sarkozy told RTL radio. "A mistake for which I would like to apologise or explain myself and which I will not make again," he said, insisting: "Now, I know the job." FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 In Paris, rival rallies tell two tales of one country The vote is seen by many as a referendum on the unpopular Sarkozy, who feted tycoons and married supermodel Carla Bruni during his five-year term, rather than a chance to choose France's first Socialist president since 1995. The latest survey before campaigning and opinion polls were to be banned at midnight on Friday said Hollande would win 29 percent of votes to Sarkozy's 25.5 percent before the pair meet head-on in the second round. Hollande is on course to win the final vote 56 percent to the right-winger's 44 percent, polling organisation Ipsos forecast. Far-right candidate Marine Le Pen could take 16 percent in the first round, the far-left's Jean-Luc Melenchon 14 percent and centrist Francois Bayrou 10 percent, IPSOS said. IPSOS' Brice Teinturier said that if the figures proved accurate, "for the first time since the start of the Fifth Republic, five candidates will have double-figure scores." He nevertheless noted voter "porosity and uncertainty" and added that far-right voters initially drawn to Sarkozy were now abandoning him. Even pro-Sarkozy newspaper Le Figaro said "confidence has swept into Francois Hollande's camp" where "the candidate is having difficulty concealing his optimism", to the point of denigrating potential second-round allies. Amid speculation that he could reach out to Melenchon or Bayrou to ensure his victory in the run-off, Hollande has said there would be no between-round deals, such as tapping a prime minister from among his rivals. "There is no place in a presidential election for negotiations between parties. No bartering, no concessions, no exchanges," Hollande said. Sarkozy's campaign spokeswoman Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet played up French voter unpredictability, with polling organisations themselves saying they had never seen "such erratic predictions so close to the first round." "I think that there will be big surprises," she told Le Parisien newspaper, thanks to "the silent French, who don't express themselves in the media or on the Internet." FRANCE Could Twitter 'undermine' France's presidential vote? Hollande's campaign chief Pierre Moscovici told the same paper that voters had a "powerful and tranquil expectation of change" and those backing other left-wing candidates in the first round would end up voting Hollande. "Hollande will become the candidate of the Socialist Party and of its allies: he will be the candidate of the left and of change," Moscovici said. Sarkozy was briefly buoyed by security fears in the wake of last month's Al-Qaeda-inspired killings in Toulouse and has vowed to cut immigration, but the economy has been the overwhelming issue throughout the campaign. Unemployment is at a 12-year high, the eurozone debt crisis has shaken the economy and French citizens' purchasing power is diminishing. Hollande took a statesmanlike stance Friday, saying France would join UN-backed military intervention in Syria and calling for the European Central Bank to cut interest rates.
####2012 April 20####Foreign press ready to bid ‘adieu’ to Sarkozy####With the French set to head to the polls for the first round of voting in France’s presidential election, foreign editorialists, reporters, and correspondents have weighed in. FRANCE 24 takes the pulse of news desks around the world.With the first round of the French presidential election just days away, the foreign press has weighed in. Opinions vary, but a glance at recent editorials, articles, and reports from correspondents for publications abroad reveals a few trends: incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy has lost his lustre; Socialist challenger François Hollande is a middling candidate, but has managed to coast atop the anti-Sarkozy tide; centrist François Bayrou’s campaign is a flop; far-right National Front candidate Marine Le Pen is an effective communicator of toxic ideas; and far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon is questionable in substance, but dazzling in style. Here is a sampling of the latest reviews of the main French presidential candidates from media around the world. Nicolas Sarkozy PRESS REVIEW FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy’s big speech gets no love from French press The sitting centre-right president has got largely negative press for not living up to the promise of his widely admired 2007 campaign and the start of his first term. An editorial in left-leaning British daily The Guardian noted that “Sarkozy's brilliance as a communicator shines no more”, and compared him to “a magician who has gone through his box of tricks”. Pondering what went wrong, the editorial concluded that “his big handicap is his own personality”. Other publications lamented Sarkozy’s pandering to the far-right to get a leg up on rival Hollande. “President Nicolas Sarkozy’s re-election campaign in France is getting a little desperate, and more than a little ugly,” read a scathing editorial in The New York Times, which in the past has had kinder words for the French president. “Regrettably, Mr. Sarkozy has no problem being frivolous or cruel if it means he can peel away some of [Marine Le Pen’s] voters.” Argentinian daily La Nacion specified: “Sarkozy continues to abuse language and confuse basic concepts such as religion and race.” The newspaper singled out his statement that two of the soldiers killed by Mohammed Merah in March in the south of France were also “Muslims, at least in appearance”. “As if all Muslims on Earth were supposed to look Arab,” the editorial noted witheringly. Even business paper Financial Times has dumped the French president. After Sarkozy took issue with the publication’s criticism of his handling of the economy, the Financial Times published an editorial bluntly entitled: “Yeah, well – we don't like you either, Sarko”. François Hollande Response to Hollande’s campaign in the foreign press has often been coloured by almost bemused wonder at how an uninspiring candidate has ended up at the presidency’s doorstep. For The New York Times, Hollande’s success can partly be explained by what the French want their politicians to look and sound like – especially in the wake of a brash, relatively unrefined president like Sarkozy. “Hollande provides a quainter and, for many, more comfortable vision of what a French politician should be,” read a profile of the candidate in The New York Times. “With his distaste for the rich and his lack of ostentation, Hollande represents a return to traditional French politics.” A profile in The Guardian also saw Hollande benefitting from the contrast with Sarkozy. “[Hollande] reasons that after five years of the testosterone-fuelled, frenetic, rightwing Nicolas Sarkozy…this is the moment for a Mr. Ordinary,” the article assessed. FRANCE Could Twitter 'undermine' France's presidential vote? Even The Economist, the weekly magazine known for its right-leaning economic outlook, praised Hollande for doing “a good job of appearing sympathetic and solemn”, nothing that he “has deftly turned the campaign into a referendum on Mr. Sarkozy”. Centrist Italian daily La Stampa has been harder on the Socialist, zeroing in on what they describe as his terminal blandness. “Hollande seems so nice and so honest,” read one editorial. “But he comes off as a local bureaucrat. We don’t know what’s worse: his speeches or his delivery.” Jean-Luc Mélenchon Foreign journalists have marvelled at the far-left candidate’s ability to draw throngs of supporters to rallies and rise in polls, despite what many depict as out-of-touch policy proposals and questionable political attitudes. Left-wing Argentinian publication Pagina 12 noted: “Whether or not one adheres to his ideas, his candidacy has been delightful. Even his ideological enemies recognise his charisma, combativeness, and talent.” Centrist Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera indeed admired Mélenchon’s “political masterstroke: succeeding in shaking off the ex-Trotskyist label and affiliation with outdated ideologies.” In the New York Times Opinion pages, Robert Zaretsky, a professor of French history in Texas, wrote that “Mélenchon’s politics are unabashedly radical (and for many critics utterly impractical),” but added that “he channels in remarkable ways the anxiety of a growing number of French citizens.” FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call New York Times editorialist John Vinocur was more sceptical. He accused the candidate of “infantilising” the French and slammed him for foreign policy leanings that Vinocur mockingly summarised as amounting to: “Hugo Chávez of Venezuela is a hero, the Chinese invasion of Tibet was justified, and Cuba isn’t a dictatorship”. Marine Le Pen Vinocur also had harsh words for the far-right candidate, writing that she “summons French instincts in the direction of bigotry and spite” albeit “with less of a growl than her father”. But while British tabloid The Daily Mail dismissed Le Pen for “spouting her inflammatory nonsense”, an editorialist for left-leaning Italian daily La Repubblica admitted her ability to enthral supporters – including those not pre-disposed to like her politics. “Her voice has a slight masculine hint to it, but not too much,” he wrote. “Like any good lawyer, she knows how to control how she comes off and to polish her arguments.” François Bayrou Centrist Bayrou has been either ignored or roundly panned by the international press for failing to capitalise on his potential in appealing to moderates not impressed with either right- or left-wing candidates. “Bayrou’s problem, though simple, is one that cannot be fixed too easily: he is nice, reasonable … and mind-blowingly boring,” read one editorial in The Guardian, which proceeded to heap unflattering adjectives on the politician: “Indecisive, characterless, insipid, monotonous, platitudinous, unexciting.”  
####2012 April 20####Do social media dumb down the political debate?####MEDIAWATCH, Fri. 20/4/2012: As the French presidential election campaign draws to a close, we take a look at how social media has been used and misused by politicians and the public. Do the viral video and the hashtag contribute to a dumbing down of the discourse?
####2012 April 20####The World This Week - April 20th, 2012####He was billed as a leader who thrives in a crisis, so why is Nicolas Sarkozy polling so poorly? François Picard's panel looks at France and its candidates on the eve of the first round of the presidential election.Patrick Vignal, Senior Correspondent, Reuters news agency, Paris bureau; Christopher Dickey, Paris Bureau Chief, Newsweek/The Daily Beast; Anne Bagamery, Senior Editor, International Herald Tribune; Dave Clark, Paris Deputy Bureau Chief, Agence France-Presse. Watch Part Two Produced by Paul Maakad, Diaraye Bah, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel
####2012 April 20####The World This Week - April 20th, 2012 (part 2)####He was billed as a leader who thrives in a crisis, so why is Nicolas Sarkozy polling so poorly? François Picard's panel looks at France and its candidates on the eve of the first round of the presidential election.Patrick Vignal, Senior Correspondent, Reuters news agency, Paris bureau; Christopher Dickey, Paris Bureau Chief, Newsweek/The Daily Beast; Anne Bagamery, Senior Editor, International Herald Tribune; Dave Clark, Paris Deputy Bureau Chief, Agence France-Presse. Watch Part One Produced by Paul Maakad, Diaraye Bah, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel
####2012 April 21####France votes in first round of presidential poll####In the first round of the 2012 presidential election, French voters are choosing between 10 candidates for the country’s top post after a raucous campaign season that saw the economy dominate the political discourse.After a bitter campaign season that raged amid the backdrop of the eurozone crisis, voters across France are casting their ballot Sunday in the first round of the 2012 French presidential election.  French election 2012 on Twitter An estimated 44.5 million eligible French voters are choosing between 10 candidates, including incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy, Socialist Party candidate François Hollande and extreme right National Front party chief, Marine Le Pen. Polls opened at 8am local time on Sunday across mainland France with voters lining up to cast their ballot outside polling stations in most parts of the country. By 5pm, the French Interior Ministry said over 70 percent of France's registered voters had cast ballots. It was slightly less than the nearly 74 percent at the same time in the 2007 first-round vote. Voting began Saturday for French citizens living in the Americas as well as in France’s far-flung overseas territories -- islands in the Pacific, Indian and Atlantic oceans -- where 882,000 French citizens enjoy full voting rights. On Sunday morning, Sarkozy and his wife, the singer and ex-model Carla Bruni Sarkozy, voted at a high school in an affluent western Parisian district as a small crowd of supporters on the sidewalk chanted “Bravo!” “Bravo!” as the couple left. At his last rally in Nice on Friday night, just hours before campaigning officially stopped, Sarkozy told his supporters that “the moment of truth” had arrived. Earlier Friday, in an uncharacteristically contrite interview with a French radio station, Sarkozy apologized for the “mistakes” he made following his election triumph in 2007, acknowledging that he did not immediately understand “the symbolic dimension of the role of president”. The 2012 French presidential campaign has shaped up as a referendum on Sarkozy’s personal style, especially his perceived penchant for a flashy lifestyle that earned him the moniker, the “bling bling president”. The wave of “anti-Sarkozyism” - as it’s known in France – has been seized on by Hollande, who has consistently led the polls in the run-up to the election. Polls have shown both Sarkozy and Hollande capturing slightly less than 30% of the votes, with Hollande a few points ahead. The Socialist candidate voted in the central French town of Tulle Sunday, where he told supporters, "This is an election that will weigh on the future of Europe. That's why many people are watching us.'' At his final campaign stop in the north-eastern industrial town of Charleville-Mezieres on Friday, Hollande noted that, "This is a region that put its faith in Nicolas Sarkozy, who came here making speeches on industry, jobs, workers. Everybody can see the scale of the disappointment,” he said before adding, “"Now, it's the left's turn to govern the country.” France’s left has not governed since 1995 and there has been only one leftist president during the Fifth Republic – Socialist François Mitterrand. If, as the polls suggest, Sarkozy loses the May 6 second round, he will be the first French president since 1981 to not win a second term in office. The last president to be voted out of office after completing his first term was the centre-right Valery Giscard d’Estaing. Under French law, if no candidate wins 50% of the vote, the top two contenders head for a knock-out round, set for May 6 this year. All eyes on the third place  Over the past few months, campaigning has focused on the economy as France confronts a jobless rate of around 10% - its highest in 12 years - and a stagnant economy as the eurozone has lurched from crisis to crisis. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. FRANCE 24's James Andre reports from a polling station in western Paris where French President Nicolas Sarkozy cast his vote Sunday. Both Sarkozy and Hollande have promised to balance the budget, although Hollande has favored growth over the sort of austerity measures that Sarkozy has promoted for the eurozone along with German chancellor Angela Merkel.  The policy alignment of the two European leaders have led some critics to coin the term, “Merkozy” and publicly wonder if “Merkozy” was running for president. The nation’s widespread dissatisfaction on the economic front has seen the invigoration of the extreme ends of the political spectrum, with the race for third place promising to be almost as exciting as the ones for the top two spots. The 2012 campaign has seen the rise of far-left firebrand Jean-Luc Melenchon - who has polled between 12 to 15% of the vote - competing with the far-right’s Le Pen for a third place in Sunday’s race. With his fiery rhetoric, Melenchon has built an alliance of Communists, Trotskyites and anti-capitalists, drawing huge crowds at his rallies. Experts say that if Melenchon wins third place in Sunday’s vote, it would encourage Hollande to veer further to the left ahead of the May 6 knock-out round. Extreme left takes on extreme right French political commentators have suggested that Melenchon’s success could in part be attributed to his decision to openly confront the far-right National Front on the campaign trail – a strategy dubbed the “Front vs. Front fight”. Over the past few months, Melenchon’s pugnacious televised face-offs with Le Pen have been closely monitored by French audiences who have been deprived of the sort of televised debates between candidates that dominate the US campaign season. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call Le Pen, the 43-year-old youngest daughter of National Front founder Jean-Marie Le Pen, has been polling between 14 to 17% in the lead-up to Sunday’s poll. But commentators note that the National Front support base is often not accurately reflected in opinion polls, with many electors preferring not to reveal their preference for far-right candidates. It’s a phenomenon that helped Le Pen’s father advance to the second round in the 2002 presidential election, a ghost of the past that continues to haunt French voters a decade later. The 2002 result is often attributed to the low voter turnout in the first round, with a record abstention of 28.4%. While the last presidential election in 2007 saw a record turnout of 85% in the first round, pollsters are expecting an abstention rate of between 22 and 30% this year. Polls close at 6pm local time in French towns and villages while voting stations in big cities like Paris and Marseilles officially shut at 8pm. Under current rules, French media are barred from publishing the surveys or even partial results until 8pm But come Sunday evening and all eyes in this country will be peeled to television sets as French audiences watch the whittling away of eight candidates’ chances of becoming the next president, leaving just two leading contenders.
####2012 April 21####French election campaign: Blame it on Europe####Europe has been at the centre of the French presidential campaign: be it on the Shengen agreement, on the role of the European Central Bank or on free trade. So what do MEPs expect from the next French president?Christophe Robeet speaks to: Alexander Graf Lamsdorff, German MEP, Alliance of Liberals and Democrats Ana Gomes, Portuguese MEP, Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats Watch part 2 with Jean-Luc Dehaene   Programme produced by Salima Belhadj    
####2012 April 21####Jean-Luc Dehaene, Former Belgian Prime Minister, Belgian MEP (European People’s Party)####Former Belgian Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene has been an MEP since 2004. He gives us his take on the French presidential campaign. In his view, Europe has been used as a scapegoat in the campaign.Presented by Christophe Robeet
####2012 April 22####Sarkozy and Hollande tune up for presidential run-off####Incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist candidate François Hollande have made it to the second round of France’s presidential election. But the far right once again caused a stir by pooling almost a fifth of the vote.The highly anticipated showdown between French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist candidate François Hollande will indeed take place on May 6, after the left-wing challenger finished ahead of the incumbent in Sunday’s first round of voting. But it was the leader of the far-right National Front, Marine Le Pen, who stole the show on election day with a record score for her party. According to partial results released by France’s Interior Ministry, Hollande secured around 28.63% of the vote, ahead of Sarkozy with 27.08% and Le Pen with 18.1%. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. Socialist candidate Francois Hollande addresses supporters following his victory in Sunday's first round of the presidential poll. “I am the candidate of unity, and that unity needs to be strong,” Hollande pleaded during a post-election speech at his campaign headquarters in the central city of Tulles. France’s Socialists are hoping to return to the Elysée Palace for the first time in almost two decades. Sarkozy, who has been criticized for waging a feeble campaign so far, was in a race against time to inject fresh momentum into his re-election drive, with opinion polls suggesting he will also finish second in the May 6 run-off. An election day survey by the Ipsos polling firm predicted Hollande would beat Sarkozy by 54% to 46%. Another Le Pen shocker While Hollande's supporters were contemplating overall victory, and the president's camp were breathing a sigh of relief, the National Front was throwing the biggest party of the night. “The battle for France has only just begun… nothing will be as before,” Marine Le Pen told ecstatic supporters in her usually combative style. Her near-20% support was a historic high for her anti-immigration National Front party, even if it did not buy her a ticket into the second round. In the 2002 presidential election, her father Jean-Marie Le Pen, the founder and long-time leader of the National Front, shocked France by securing 16.8% support in the first round. His score that year was enough to get him into the second round, where he was trounced by former president Jacques Chirac. While her name would not be on the run-off ballot, Marine Le Pen’s third-place finish on Sunday confirmed her position as the National Front’s new leader and as a major player on France’s political stage. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day The Ipsos poll revealed that 48% of people who voted for the Marine Le Pen were between 25 and 44 years of age, challenging established ideas about the far-right’s electorate and perhaps signalling an important shift in the party’s makeup under Marine Le Pen. The same study showed that Le Pen supporters said immigration and insecurity were their top concerns, whereas Sarkozy backers said the financial crisis was France’s most pressing problem. It remained uncertain whether Le Pen’s strong showing would translate into second-round votes for the incumbent. Marine Le Pen said she would wait until May 1 to make an announcement to supporters about the second round. However, speaking to French television, Jean-Marie Le Pen said it was clear that the first-round results spelt disaster for Sarkozy. Far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon, who some opinion surveys showed to be running neck and neck with Le Pen, disappointed supporters with 11.5% of votes. Centrist François Bayrou, who conquered third place in the 2007 presidential vote, finished in fifth with 8.5%, exit polls showed. Green candidate Eva Joly ended election day with 2.3%, while the right-wing eurosceptic Nicolas Dupont-Aignan got 1.8%. Far-left candidates Phillippe Poutou and Nathalie Arthaud got 1.2% and 0.7% respectively, and off-beat candidate Jacques Cheminade won just 0.2%. Left rallies behind Hollande Candidates on the left quickly expressed their support for François Hollande in the second round. Green candidate Eva Joly went on the record as saying she backed Hollande’s presidential bid, echoing other prominent Greens. Melenchon told supporters rallied on Place de Stalingrad in the north-east of Paris that their vote would be key in the final outcome, urging them to “come together on May 6 to beat Sarkozy”. Phillippe Poutou, the candidate of the New Anti-capitalist Party, also called on voters to “kick out” Sarkozy from office. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. FRANCE 24's James Andre reports from a polling station in western Paris where French President Nicolas Sarkozy cast his vote Sunday. Marie-George Buffet, a past presidential candidate for France’s Communist Party and an ally of Melenchon, delivered a clearer endorsement for the Socialist candidate. “All men and women on the left need to mobilize and unify around François Hollande because the danger of the right and far-right remains,” she said. Accordign to an Ipsos survey, 86% of people who voted for Melenchon in the first round said they would probably vote for François Hollande in the second round. That compared with 60% of Le Pen supporters who said they would cast a run-off ballot for Nicolas Sarkozy. François Bayrou said he would consult both Hollande and Sarkozy before deciding who he would endorse for the May 6 vote. According to the Ipsos poll, 33% of Bayrou’s supporters said they were leaning towards Hollande, while 32% said they favoured Sarkozy. Allies of the incumbent president said Sunday’s results proved that opinion polls could not be trusted and that the field remained open for Sarkozy. “Nothing is certain,” said French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe after results. ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL WITH FRANCOIS HOLLANDE Election posters of Socialist Party candidate François Hollande and far-left rival Jean-Luc Melenchon are ubiquitous in the central French town of Tulle in the Corrèze region, which Hollande represents in the French National Assembly. (Photo: M. Chebil) François Hollande takes advantage of Saturday’s break from campaigning to take a carefully demarcated walk to "greet the French people". (Photo: M. Chebil) François Hollande’s “nice guy” image appears to have served him well on Sunday, when the Socialist candidate led the first round of the election, advancing to the May 6 knock-out round against French President Nicolas Sarkozy. (Photo: M. Chebil) After taking a walk through Tulle’s markets, François Hollande took refuge from a downpour in a downtown bar. Corrèze locals regard Valerie Trierveiler as France’s first lady. The political journalist has been in a relationship with Hollande since the collapse of his long-term partnership with 2007 Socialist presidential candidate, Ségolène Royal. (Photo: M. Chebil) At 10am on Sunday, the Socialist Party frontrunner cast his vote in the first round of the 2012 French presidential poll. (Photo: M. Chebil) Outside the polling stations, the Socialist candidate is literally mobbed by journalists from across the world who descended on this tiny town. (Photo: M. Chebil) Residents of Tulle are proud to see their “homeboy” play the national – and even international – stages. (Photo: M. Chebil) On and off the campaign trail, François Hollande always seems to have time for people – like the diners at Tulle’s "Le Central" restaurant. (Photo: M. Chebil) Having won the first round of the 2012 presidential election, François Hollande now has to prepare to take on the incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy in the May 6 final round. (Photo: M. Chebil)
####2012 April 22####French voters flock to polls after lacklustre campaign####Despite fears of low turnout after a muted campaign, France's Interior Ministry has reported strong participation in the first round of presidential polls. FRANCE 24 caught up with voters in Paris as they queued to pick their next president.Some 44 million French voters are called to choose between ten candidates Sunday in the first round of a presidential election that is largely viewed as a contest between incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist rival François Hollande. Sarkozy voted in Paris on Sunday morning, flanked by his wife, the singer and ex-model Carla Bruni Sarkozy, while Hollande cast his ballot in the central town of Tulle. French election 2012 on Twitter There had been fears in the run up to the election that a lacklustre campaign could lead to a low turnout. But by 5pm local time, the French Interior Ministry said 70.59 percent of France's registered voters had cast their ballots. The figure was down three percent from the last election in 2007, but higher than turnout at the same time in 2002. Though lamenting an underwhelming campaign, voters in the eastern 11th district of Paris still turned out in large numbers to pick their new head of state. “It has been a little boring,” said Laeticia Pasquet as she queued outside a polling station on avenue Parmentier. “The main candidates have already been in the media for so long now. We might as well just have the second round today.” Mimi Tran complained there was a “lack of fervour” in 2012 compared to the previous presidential election in 2007, when second-round candidates Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist rival Segolene Royal were both new. In 2007 Royal won 40.81 percent of the vote in the 11th arrondissement compared to 25.80 percent for Nicolas Sarkozy. Centrist candidate Francois Bayrou came in third with 20 percent of the vote. “There’s definitely been a lack of enthusiasm surrounding the campaign this time round,” Tran said. “Five years ago there was much more fervour.” Despite the complaints, staff at the polling station reported a healthy turnout with numbers swelling in the late morning and lunch time. Range of motives Some voters turning up to vote in the bright sunshine were unhappy at the lack of strong personalities among the 10 candidates who are vying to reach the second round on May 6. ‘I’m disappointed,” Paul Simonnet told FRANCE 24. “There are no real personalities, no one has really convinced me that they deserve my vote today. The campaign has not really been that exciting but then the era we live in is not that exciting either.” The election has been billed in some quarters as a referendum on France's unpopular president, Nicolas Sarkozy, rather than on the candidates’ actual programmes. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day For voter Kamel Kermani, the opportunity to oust the incumbent president was the biggest incentive to vote. “I am not satisfied with what he has done over the last five years,” Kermani told FRANCE 24.”I don’t like his mentality, which is anti-Muslim. He’s dishonest and full of empty proposals. We didn’t know him five years ago but now we do and I am voting today to get him out.” Sarkozy and Hollande are widely expected to face off in the second round of voting on May 6. But in Sunday’s first round French voters have the chance to pick from eight other candidates, including the far-right’s Marine Le Pen and her main challenger on the far-left, Jean-Luc Melenchon. Looking ahead to run-off poll Voter Eric Da Costa cast his ballot for Melenchon but admitted he was a little scared it might help Marine Le Pen sneak into the second round. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. FRANCE 24's James Andre reports from a polling station in western Paris where French President Nicolas Sarkozy cast his vote Sunday. “You have to vote first for the person you really want,” he said. “I don’t think Melenchon will make the second round but it’s a risk you have to take. If the worst thing happens and Hollande misses the second round then Sarkozy is still better than Marine Le Pen.” Da Costa regretted the lack of a stronger candidate from the Socialist Party, like the disgraced former head of the International Monetary Fund, Dominique Strauss-Kahn. “It’s a shame Strauss-Kahn is not on the list of candidates today," he said, suggesting the private lives of candidates should stay out of the campaign. "He would have been good because he was strong and had some good ideas.” Laeticia Pasquet, another Melenchon supporter, is confident her vote will not be wasted if he does not make it to the second round. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. FRANCE 24's Catherine Norris Trent reporting from the Socialist Party headquarters in Paris. “It’s important Melenchon enjoys a strong showing because it can influence the Socialist Party,” she said. “I was always going to vote for him, unless Hollande got a poor showing in the opinion polls. I think all those who vote for Melenchon today will be switching their vote to Francois Hollande in the second round.” Not all residents of the 11th district were thrilled by the chance to exercise their democratic right on Sunday. One woman who did not want to be named turned around and headed home when she saw the queue outside the polling station. “There’s no point voting anyway,” she told FRANCE 24. “Europe is in charge of France so whatever happens today is meaningless. Although I will feel a bit guilty if I don’t vote.”  
####2012 April 22####Slideshow: With ‘Mr. Nice Guy’ in Hollande’s stronghold####In his stronghold in the central French town of Tulle, Francois Hollande, the winner of Sunday’s first round of the 2012 French presidential poll, lives up to his approachable ‘nice guy’ image. ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL WITH FRANCOIS HOLLANDE Election posters of Socialist Party candidate François Hollande and far-left rival Jean-Luc Melenchon are ubiquitous in the central French town of Tulle in the Corrèze region, which Hollande represents in the French National Assembly. (Photo: M. Chebil) François Hollande takes advantage of Saturday’s break from campaigning to take a carefully demarcated walk to "greet the French people". (Photo: M. Chebil) François Hollande’s “nice guy” image appears to have served him well on Sunday, when the Socialist candidate led the first round of the election, advancing to the May 6 knock-out round against French President Nicolas Sarkozy. (Photo: M. Chebil) After taking a walk through Tulle’s markets, François Hollande took refuge from a downpour in a downtown bar. Corrèze locals regard Valerie Trierveiler as France’s first lady. The political journalist has been in a relationship with Hollande since the collapse of his long-term partnership with 2007 Socialist presidential candidate, Ségolène Royal. (Photo: M. Chebil) At 10am on Sunday, the Socialist Party frontrunner cast his vote in the first round of the 2012 French presidential poll. (Photo: M. Chebil) Outside the polling stations, the Socialist candidate is literally mobbed by journalists from across the world who descended on this tiny town. (Photo: M. Chebil) Residents of Tulle are proud to see their “homeboy” play the national – and even international – stages. (Photo: M. Chebil) On and off the campaign trail, François Hollande always seems to have time for people – like the diners at Tulle’s "Le Central" restaurant. (Photo: M. Chebil) Having won the first round of the 2012 presidential election, François Hollande now has to prepare to take on the incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy in the May 6 final round. (Photo: M. Chebil)
####2012 April 22####Twitter users thwart French law with WWII codes####In witty, bemused and often cruel posts, Twitter users on Sunday circumvented tough French laws banning the prediction of election results by incorporating World War II codes.AFP - Twitter users turned Sunday's French presidential election into a battle between a green Hungarian wine and a red Dutch cheese in a bid to get round tough laws banning result predictions. French election 2012 on Twitter The #RadioLondres hashtag was the top France trend on Twitter during the first-round presidential vote, in homage to World War II codes broadcast to Resistance fighters in Nazi-occupied France from the BBC in London. But French citizens have written a new codebook in a subversive bid to get round laws that mean anyone announcing vote predictions before polls closed at 8:00 pm (1800 GMT) could be fined up to 75,000 euros (100,000 dollars). "Tune in to #RadioLondres so as not to know the figures we don't want to know before 8:00 pm," said one ironic tweet. As a result, incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy became either Tokaji wine which, like his father, comes from Hungary, or Rolex because of his perceived "bling-bling" lifestyle. His Socialist opponent Francois Hollande was either Gouda cheese (from Holland) or a soft, sweet "Flanby" caramel desert -- an old and unforgiving nickname for the portly frontrunner. Far-right candidate Marine Le Pen was associated with the names of totalitarian regimes or rodents and Communist Party-backed Jean-Luc Melenchon was either a rotten tomato or something linked to the former Soviet Union. The tweets were witty, bemused or cruel, with many including links to francophone media websites in Belgium or Switzerland that are beyond the reach of French law and thus able to publish leaked estimates. "Dutch cheese at 27 euros, Tokai wine at 25 euros," read one tweet as poll percentage predictions were published abroad. "This Belgian site has excellent weather forecasts," said another. "The sea temperature is 16 degrees. Global warming is indeed happening," said one tweet, in a reference to the score of the far-right candidate's first name, Marine. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day "Who's doing the 75,000 euro tweet then?" said one tweet. With only 10 French election officials reportedly tasked with monitoring social networks for breaches of the law, web users felt free to enjoy themselves. "Previous election evenings were not so fun, thanks," read a tweet grateful for the light relief during the tense election today. "It has snowed on the mountaintops, I repeat, it has snowed on the mountaintops," said one of the more enigmatic tweets, echoing the apparently incomprehensible coded phrases broadcast by the French during World War II. Other remarks made digs at Sarkozy's stature as it emerged that he would not win the vote, saying that "high-heeled shoes are going out of fashion". "#RadioLondres Twitter is stronger than you, broadcasting commission" said another tweet, mocking the body that monitors the application of election laws on broadcast media and the Internet. The huge outpouring of frustration with laws many consider outdated in an age of instant, global communication led one Twitter user to note: "It's incredible what this hashtag betrays about the state of mind in France." Late Sunday, the head of France's polling commission, Jean-Francois Pillon, said he would ask the prosecutor to draw up charges against "individuals and media organisations" who allegedly broke the law. "There are acts that appear to us to be punishable," he told AFP.      
####2012 April 22####Live blog: The first round as it happened####Follow the first round of France's presidential election as it happened on our live blog.<a href="http://www.coveritlive.com/mobile.php?option=com_mobile&task=viewaltcast&altcast_code=49d32091e8" >First round of French presidential elections</a>  
####2012 April 22####‘Paris-on-Thames’ votes in first round of French poll####London is home to an estimated 350,000 French residents, earning it the monicker “Paris on Thames". As French nationals in London cast their ballots in Sunday’s election, many said they were not impressed by the candidates.REUTERS - Pampered by a profligate state and blind to hard economic truths: that is how many French expatriates who have crossed the Channel to seek job opportunities in London view their compatriots back home as they prepare to elect their president. FRANCE Could Twitter 'undermine' France's presidential vote? Dubbed "Paris-on-Thames" by some British media, London has an estimated 350,000 French residents scattered across the city and working in every sector from finance to fast food. It is the equivalent of France's fifth city after Paris, Marseille, Lyon and Toulouse, if you discount those cities' suburbs. Reasons for moving to London range from learning English to getting a lucrative job in financial services, or simply to enjoy a diverse, dynamic environment less stifling than Paris. "People in Paris are not very open-minded. London is a lot more multi-cultural. And let's face it, the job opportunities are much better," said Turpin Senou, a French worker in the City financial district with family roots in Benin, West Africa. Many French Londoners say France is bent on preserving a cushy but unaffordable lifestyle, and they are deeply unimpressed with what the presidential candidates are proposing. "They argue about things like halal meat. It's populist nonsense. The real problem is the economic crisis and they're not saying anything convincing about how to sort it out," said Silene Sashugba, an acupuncturist. A row over warning labels on meat prepared under Muslim halal rules dominated early stages of the campaign. Sashugba plans to vote for Socialist frontrunner Francois Hollande, but she is not enthused. More than 77,500 French Londoners are registered to vote with the consulate, and many others may travel home to cast their ballots. The presidential election will take place in two rounds on April 22 and May 6 while the legislative elections are scheduled for June 10 and 17. In the past there was a single polling station in London, at the main French school, b ut this year there will be three. Hollande made a ca FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call mpaign visit on Feb. 29, while conservative incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy is bombarding expatriates with emails promising more places in French schools abroad. Education is the number one issue for French Londoners desperate to get their children into over-subscribed French schools. But the voters Sarkozy is courting do not seem inclined to focus only on their narrow interests. Frederique Shaw, a public relations executive, frets about how she will get her young daughter Heloise into school, but when it comes to the election she frets more about the future of her home country. "I'm really worried about the health of France. I feel an enormous responsibility to vote but I'm afraid of voting for the wrong person. Who will be brave and do the right thing?" said Shaw, who has not yet decided who will get her vote. Pascal Grierson, CEO of French Radio London which has about 75,000 listeners a week, says there is a lot of buzz around the election but little enthusiasm for the candidates. "There's a lot of dissatisfaction with Sarkozy and what he's delivered, or failed to deliver, balanced with the fact that people want to believe in Hollande and want to believe that he's the man for the job but are struggling with his believability and credentials," said Grierson. In past decades, expatriate voters were far more right-leaning than French society at large. In 1981, when Socialist challenger Francois Mitterrand won the presidency, his score among voters in London was less than 30 percent. But over time, as the community has grown and diversified, voting patterns have fallen into line with the national average. In the 2007 election, Sarkozy won the London vote with a score that was almost identical to the national result. A community that used to be made up largely of diplomats, bankers and business executives has burst out of its original heartland in affluent South Kensington. Now, the sound of French can be heard in every corner of London and French professionals can be found everywhere from hospitals to hotels. "These developments suggest that Hollande should do well in London this time," said Philippe Marliere, a professor of politics at University College London. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Row over exit polls engulfs French presidential election In any case, while many of these French residents embrace London's economically liberal, hire-and-fire culture for themselves, few have a black-and-white position on the relative merits of the broader French and British economic models. Britain's budget deficit is hovering around 9 percent of GDP, compared with about 5 percent in France. Inequalities between the highest and lowest earners are greater in Britain than in France. And few people either side of the Channel would dispute that the French health system is better - albeit at the cost of a huge funding deficit - and many expats sneak back home when they need non-urgent treatment. The difference right now, say many French Londoners, is that Britain is tackling its problems with an aggressive austerity programme, while France is not prepared to give anything up. "The French model is incredibly protective. I'm not saying that's a bad thing, but if people want to keep that model they need to realise it has a cost," said Sandrine Tobelem, a senior quantitative analyst at a London-based hedge fund. City under attack The French are ubiquitous in the City, particularly in fields such as equity derivatives where the top-notch mathematical skills of graduates from France's prestigious "Grandes Ecoles" colleges gi v e them a competitive advantage. While many of them are disappointed with Sarkozy, few have warmed to Hollande, who wants to impose a 75-percent tax rate on those earning more than 1 million euros a year and once said on live television that he "doesn't like the rich". In his first major campaign speech, Hollande declared that finance was his enemy. "It's absurd. What are we going to do, start bartering carrots and potatoes?" said Tobelem. No fan of Sarkozy either, she plans to vote "blanc", which means she will cast her vote but will not choose any of the candidates.
####2012 April 22####Hollande wins first round, sets up run-off with Sarkozy####French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist candidate François Hollande will face off in the second round of France's presidential election after edging out the far right's Marine Le Pen in Sunday's first round of voting.Socialist presidential challenger François Hollande topped the first round of France’s presidential election on Sunday with 28.4 percent of votes, while incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy finished second with 25.5 percent, according to exit polls. Those figures set up a widely expected run-off between Sarkozy and the candidate of France’s main opposition party who led most voter intentions surveys before the first round. French election 2012 on Twitter Exit polls showed Marine Le Pen, leader of the far-right National Front party, had conquered third place with 18.5% of the vote. Far-left candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon took 11.7%, and centrist François Bayrou 8.8%, the Ipsos polling agency said. While the tallies of the two leading candidates were in line with dozens of opinion surveys published before Sunday’s ballot, Le Pen’s figures were well above any of those forecasts. Marine Le Pen far exceeded her father’s shocking second-place 16.86% score in the 2002 presidential race. Even if it was not enough to get her to the second round, the extraordinary score confirmed her presence at the head of the anti-immigration National Front party and in France's political landscape for years to come. A drop in voter intentions for Sarkozy in the final weeks of the campaign appears to have swung to the far-right camp. Hollande, who was seen as benefitting from a wave of hostility towards Sarkozy, proved a surprisingly resilient candidate. The Socialist hopeful began campaigning months before the incumbent and while he temporarily slipped behind Sarkozy in opinion polls, he regained his frontrunner status in the final two weeks of the race. Exit polls also showed Green candidate Eva Joly with 2%, the right-wing eurosceptic Nicolas Dupont-Aignan at 1.8%, far-left candidates Phillippe Poutou and Nathalie Arthaud at 1.2% and 0.7% respectively, and off-beat candidate Jacques Cheminade winning just 0.2%. A run-off between Sarkozy and Hollande is scheduled on May 6, with opinion polls largely favouring the Socialist Party candidate. Turnout better than expected Despite fears that a lacklustre campaign combined with school holidays would lead to a historically low turnout, the French flocked to the polls on Sunday. Exit polls suggested the abstention rate was around 19%, only slightly higher than level reached in 2007. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day A mix of blue skies and clouds over Paris on Sunday also spurred early speculation about a potential drop in voter participation. However, Pascal, a 53-year-old voter in Paris's 10th arrondissement said the weather had little bearing on election day. “We were supposed to go away this weekend, but we made the choice to stay in Paris for the election,” she said, “Rain or shine, we vote!" Rudy Verdier, a 40-year-old shopkeeper in the northeast suburb of La Courneuve who described himself as a Sarkozy supporter, also said few of the people he knew would sit out the election. “I think most people from around here will be voting because they know today is important and it is a chance for people in this neighbourhood to express themselves," Verdier said. Back to the Elysee? French analysts rushed to speculate on how the whole of the election results would affect the outcome of the May 6 run-off, and on what many saw as the impending return of the Socialist Party to the Elysee Presidential palace and a Socialist-led parliament. The French left has spent the last 10 years as the country’s main opposition group, and had to digest three consecutive presidential defeats in 1995, 2002 and 2007. Former president François Mitterrand, who won back-to-back elections in 1981 and 1988, remains France’s only Socialist head of state since the end of World War Two. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. Socialist candidate Francois Hollande addresses supporters following his victory in Sunday's first round of the presidential poll. Polling institutes were expected to quickly deliver surveys on who voters intended to back in the second round, and how potential alliances and endorsements would play out during the two weeks that separate the first and second round. According to Eric Bonnet, head of opinion studies at the BVA polling firm, the transfer of second-round votes would favour the left-wing candidate. "Eighty percent of Melenchon’s votes will go to François Hollande while only 35% of the votes of Marine Le Pen will be reaped by Nicolas Sarkozy,” Bonnet said before results were announced. However, Le Pen’s surprise score and doubts about who supporters of Bayrou would ultimately back promised to make the second round a nail-biting election. Main picture by Mehdi Chebil ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL WITH FRANCOIS HOLLANDE Election posters of Socialist Party candidate François Hollande and far-left rival Jean-Luc Melenchon are ubiquitous in the central French town of Tulle in the Corrèze region, which Hollande represents in the French National Assembly. (Photo: M. Chebil) François Hollande takes advantage of Saturday’s break from campaigning to take a carefully demarcated walk to "greet the French people". (Photo: M. Chebil) François Hollande’s “nice guy” image appears to have served him well on Sunday, when the Socialist candidate led the first round of the election, advancing to the May 6 knock-out round against French President Nicolas Sarkozy. (Photo: M. Chebil) After taking a walk through Tulle’s markets, François Hollande took refuge from a downpour in a downtown bar. Corrèze locals regard Valerie Trierveiler as France’s first lady. The political journalist has been in a relationship with Hollande since the collapse of his long-term partnership with 2007 Socialist presidential candidate, Ségolène Royal. (Photo: M. Chebil) At 10am on Sunday, the Socialist Party frontrunner cast his vote in the first round of the 2012 French presidential poll. (Photo: M. Chebil) Outside the polling stations, the Socialist candidate is literally mobbed by journalists from across the world who descended on this tiny town. (Photo: M. Chebil) Residents of Tulle are proud to see their “homeboy” play the national – and even international – stages. (Photo: M. Chebil) On and off the campaign trail, François Hollande always seems to have time for people – like the diners at Tulle’s "Le Central" restaurant. (Photo: M. Chebil) Having won the first round of the 2012 presidential election, François Hollande now has to prepare to take on the incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy in the May 6 final round. (Photo: M. Chebil)
####2012 April 23####France 2012 elections: Far-right's shadow looms over run-off####The pollsters did not see it coming. So how will the far-right’s strong show in the first round of the French presidential election weigh on the final outcome? François Picard’s panel argues over Nicolas Sarkozy’s ability to drain enough of the votes to rally and win.Jamey Keaten, Paris Correspondent, Associated Press; Anne-Elisabeth Moutet, Columnist, Sunday Telegraph; Julia Cagé, Economist, Paris School of Economics - Terra Nova; Jim Shields, Political scientist, Author of "The Extreme Right in France From Pétain to Le Pen". Watch the second part Programme prepared and produced by Wassim Nasr, Anelise Borges and Mary Colombel
####2012 April 23####French elections in the age of Twitter####Twitter users around the world defied the French government's ban on publishing exit polls and preliminary results from Sunday's first round presidential election. Drawing on the spirit of Charles de Gaulle's coded broadcasts from London during WWII, the hashtag 'radiolondres' became the forum to distribute coded messages Sunday with the results.
####2012 April 23####France 2012 elections: Far-right's shadow looms over run-off (part 2)####The pollsters did not see it coming. So how will the far-right’s strong show in the first round of the French presidential election weigh on the final outcome? François Picard’s panel argues over Nicolas Sarkozy’s ability to drain enough of the votes to rally and win.Jamey Keaten, Paris Correspondent, Associated Press; Anne-Elisabeth Moutet, Columnist, Sunday Telegraph; Julia Cagé, Economist, Paris School of Economics - Terra Nova; Jim Shields, Political scientist, Author of "The Extreme Right in France From Pétain to Le Pen". Watch the first part Programme prepared and produced by Wassim Nasr, Anelise Borges and Mary Colombel
####2012 April 23####Le Pen shocks France as far right hits historic heights####Far-right National Front candidate Marine Le Pen obtained a surprising 18% of the vote in the first-round of France’s presidential election Sunday night. But who will those votes go to in the second round?Having secured nearly one in five votes cast in the first round of France’s presidential election on Sunday, far right National Front candidate Marine Le Pen has the potential to swing what is likely to be a close second round on May 6. But for the moment, Marine Le Pen is not asking her supporters to choose between incumbent centre-right President Nicolas Sarkozy or Socialist challenger François Hollande. Instead, she is basking in the glory of her surprisingly strong showing – more than 18% of the vote – and touting her party’s central message: that the two main parties interchangeably represent the “elite”, while she is the one true alternative to the status-quo in French politics. “Tonight is historic,” Le Pen gushed to her supporters gathered in the 15th district of Paris on Sunday. “We are the only opposition to the ultra-liberal, libertarian left-wing.” Smiling and putting her hand to her heart, the National Front leader led the room in singing the French national anthem. A little girl, carried away by the festive atmosphere on election day, ran through the crowds carrying a tricoloured flag. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day Across the room, Jean-Marie Le Pen, the aging former leader of the party (and father of Marine) looked on with pride. “This is the start of a long road to a future victory,” he told a group of journalists. “Marine is the only one offering a path of change.” Marine, the face of the new far right More than 500 supporters came out to celebrate Le Pen’s strong first-round showing on Sunday night. Couples, families, and groups of friends brandishing “Marine for President” banners and decked out in “I Love Marine” pins and red-white-and-blue outfits and makeup, sipped white wine. The mood was one of pride and accomplishment. “Marine defends the values and traditions of France. That’s why I voted for her,” said 22-year-old Jérémie. “I handed out pamphlets, I did everything I could, and it paid off.” A more seasoned National Front loyalist, 42-year-old Jean-Christophe, explained his reasons for supporting the candidate. “I’m against legalising immigrants without papers, no exceptions….We’re not able to welcome them properly, so we should offer them aid in their own countries,” he said. Others were eager to point Marine Le Pen as a symbol of an evolving, more inclusive far-right party. Whereas her father, who acted as party president from 1972 to 2011, was known for inflammatory racist and anti-Semitic statements, Marine ran a campaign tightly focused on economic protectionism and an exit from the Eurozone. “People need to stop calling us fascists, Nazis, and racists – it’s ridiculous,” exclaimed Carl, aged 46, from Corsica. “I like everyone, no matter what the colour of their skin is!” A 'turning point' in French politics? According to her supporters, Le Pen’s historically strong performance Sunday night catapults her to the centre of the French political scene, making her a force that cannot be ignored by Sarkozy, Hollande, and their respective parties. “It’s a major turning point in French politics,” said Marion Maréchal-Le Pen, Marine Le Pen’s niece. “The candidates in the second round will be obligated to consider our policy proposals and solutions.” Le Pen is expected to clarify her position on the second-round face-off on May 1, just days before the final vote on May 6. National Front Vice-President Louis Alliot suggested on Monday that Le Pen would not formally endorse either candidate "as things stand". But some National Front voters may feel they have no other option. Antoine, a 46-year-old Corsican, said that his priority was to prevent the left from taking over the presidency and therefore guaranteeing France “a future like that of Greece”. He, as well as the four friends who accompanied him Sunday night, will therefore vote – grudgingly – for Sarkozy. Others will stay home. “Sarko and Hollande are the same,” one Le Pen supporter told France24.com. “They’re both defenders of executives and big bosses, not the working class – unlike Marine. I’ll stay in bed for the second round.” According to a poll published by Ipsos, a French market research company, 18% of National Front voters will vote for Hollande in the second round, while 60% will opt for Sarkozy. 22%, however, have not yet decided.
####2012 April 23####French left unites with sole aim of ousting Sarkozy####The first round of France's 2012 presidential election saw the left wing candidates gain the highest percentage of the vote since 1981. They now have one common goal - to oust French President Nicolas Sarkozy in the run-off vote on May 6.Radical left-wing maverick Jean-Luc Melenchon believes he “holds the key” to who becomes the next president of France. Melenchon polled 11.11% of the first round vote on Sunday, coming in fourth place behind Francois Hollande, Nicolas Sarkozy and the National Front’s Marine Le Pen. The man, who previously called for a ‘citizen’s revolution’, left those supporters who packed into Paris’ Place Stalingrad for his election night rally in no doubt as to where their priorities now lie. Targeting Sarkozy Taking to the stage once the preliminary results had been announced just after 8pm, Melenchon told his boisterous followers to turn their votes against the incumbent French president. “I call on you to meet again on the 6th of May, without demanding anything in exchange, to beat Sarkozy,” he cried. “I ask you to mobilise yourselves as if it was a case of making me president.” At first, Melenchon refused to mention the name of Francois Hollande on Sunday but has since given a direct endorsement of the Socialist Party candidate. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Slideshow: With ‘Mr. Nice Guy’ in Hollande’s stronghold “We hold the key to the result, I call on you consciously to assume responsibility,” he told supporters. Melenchon’s team insist no deals will be done with the Socialist Party in exchange for publicly endorsing Hollande. “The Left Front and the Socialist Party are two different movements,” Jacques Genereux, Melenchon’s economics adviser told FRANCE 24. “We don’t stand alongside them nor do we campaign with them. The one thing we do have in common is the desire to beat Nicolas Sarkozy.” Despite Melenchon’s claim about holding the key to the presidency, the position of kingmaker for the second round vote appears more likely to be held by Le Pen, considering she polled just over 18% of the vote. Unlike Le Pen and her supporters, however, it seems certain that the majority of far left voters will be lining up together in an effort to bring down Sarkozy. Good omens for Hollande A survey by polling agency BVA published in French daily Le Parisien on Monday suggests 90 per cent of Melenchon’s voters will switch to Hollande for the second round. The way Le Pen’s voters will turn is less clear: the same poll suggests 57% will go to Sarkozy, and 20% to Hollande. The omens are good for Hollande. Not since 1981, when socialist Francois Mitterand was elected president, has the left scored such a high percentage (43.87%) of the vote in the first round. At Place Stalingrad on Sunday, Melenchon’s voters, who chanted “Resistance!” and booed TV images of Le Pen and Sarkozy, agreed that the left needed to unite behind Hollande. “It’s essential to vote for Hollande now. We just have to get rid of Sarkozy,” Danielle Leroux, an assistant principal of a college told FRANCE 24. But some of those flag-waving Front Gauche supporters milling around Place Stalingrad late on Sunday night suggested Hollande cannot count on the support of every left-leaning voter. "I will almost certainly tear up my voting slip in the run off vote,” Isabel Nicolas, a teacher, told FRANCE 24. “If I vote for Hollande I might as well vote for Sarkozy because there is no difference between them. They both want to solve the financial crisis through austerity. Since Mitterrand through to Chirac and Sarkozy, nothing has changed; it just appears to have done so. They have all been the same." Another disappointed Melenchon supporter Sabrina Elzouagha told FRANCE 24: “I will certainly not be voting for Francois Hollande. He is just like Sarkozy. Melenchon said we have to beat Sarkozy but he did not say vote for Hollande.” Shock at the far right Melenchon’s army of supporters were despondent on Sunday night not only because Melenchon gained less of the vote than opinion polls had predicted, but also because Marine Le Pen and their arch enemy the far right, had won historically strong support. Melenchon had sparred with Le Pen in pre-election television appearances, and the battle between the two ‘fronts’ was one of the more compelling sub-plots of the presidential race. At one stage, polls suggested Melenchon would defy the odds and take third place behind Sarkozy and Hollande, but Le Pen has doused those hopes, to the anger of those on the far left. Jean-Luc Pillot, a 25-year-old civil servant at Place Stalingrad on Sunday, told France 24: “Tonight we are not proud to be French. It’s really shameful, and we just don’t understand how so many people could vote for [Le Pen]."
####2012 April 23####French press reels from Le Pen 'hangover'####Socialist challenger François Hollande came out on top in the first round of the French presidential election. But editorialists for top national and regional newspapers were just as struck by far-right Marine Le Pen’s stunning electoral coup.“France is no longer bipolar,” Philippe Palat of southern daily newspaper Le Midi Libre wrote on Monday, the morning after the first round of France’s much anticipated presidential election. “Its electorate has exploded into five political segments making up one angry country.” Palat was referring to Socialist François Hollande and centre-right President Nicolas Sarkozy (running close at roughly 29 and 27%, respectively), far-right National Front candidate Marine Le Pen (18%) and her far-left counterpart Jean-Luc Mélenchon (11%), and centrist François Bayrou (9%). French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day But for the majority of French editorialists on Monday, French politics – at least for the next two weeks - boils down to three players: Hollande, Sarkozy, and Le Pen, who beat her father’s record electoral score and now carries unprecedented influence going into the second round. France’s ‘hangover’ “Once more, the day after the first round of the presidential election, France is waking up with a slight hangover,” wrote Jean-Francis Pécresse of daily business newspaper Les Echos. “[Marine Le Pen] has decisively arrived on the political scene and obliterated [far-left candidate] Mélenchon,” noted Didier Louis of Northern daily Le Courrier Picard expressing a similar sentiment. Bruno Dive, of Bordeaux-based daily Sud-Ouest, was in agreement. “The National Front has once again established itself as an unavoidable force,” he wrote. According to left-leaning daily Le Monde, perhaps the most prestigious of France’s newspapers, Le Pen’s accomplishment is significant. “Her personality, style, and proposals have allowed the daughter of the ex-National Front leader to achieve the goal of un-demonising the party, which she has been working toward for several years,” the editorial analysed. “Whoever wins on May 6 will have to take that into account.” FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call Left-wing daily Libération offered a more visceral assessment, comparing the result to 2002, when Jean-Marie Le Pen (Marine’s father) beat out Socialist Lionel Jospin for a spot in the second round: “This first round is reminiscent of April 21 [2002] – not as tragic as ten years ago, but just as worrisome. If not more.” Hollande’s lead not so secure? Depending on a particular publication’s political orientation, editorials offered different slants on the results and hinted at different predictions for the final outcome. Left-wing Libération emphasised “the clear victory of François Hollande”, while southern daily La Dépeche du Midi zeroed in on “the harsh disavowal” of Sarkozy. Right-leaning daily Le Figaro offered that Hollande’s advantage going into the second round is “not decisive, considering the disappointing score of [far-left candidate] Jean-Luc Mélenchon”. The fiery Mélenchon was expected to win a larger share of the anti-establishment votes. But it was Le Pen who profited most clearly from the French public’s desire for a political force other than the two main parties that have dominated French politics for so long. A warning came from northeastern daily le Républicain Lorrain. “The advantage, for the moment, is François Hollande’s. Nicolas Sarkozy’s back is up against the wall,” the editorial read. “But it’s in these situations that he is the most dangerous for his opponents.  
####2012 April 23####French toast?####The international papers react to France's election results - with many giving the Sarkozy campaign up for lost, and focusing on what a President Hollande might mean for France.
####2012 April 23####Le Pen wants to conquer the French right wing####Marine Le Pen, riding on a wave of unprecedented support, wants to fatally undermine President Sarkozy’s ruling UMP party and come out dominating the French right wing, according to France’s leading expert on the National Front party.Marine Le Pen’s record-breaking score for her party on Sunday was a major step in her plan to destroy the ruling UMP and become the main right wing voice of opposition in France, according to the country’s top expert on the far-right National Front (FN). With just under 18% of the vote, it is the FN’s biggest ever result in the first round of a presidential election. It beats the 16% that saw her father Jean-Marie Le Pen go through to the second round of the 2002 presidential election. “It is an undeniable personal victory for her and it legitimises her place at the centre of the party she inherited from her father,” Sylvain Crépon, senior researcher and FN specialist at the Paris Nanterre University told FRANCE 24. “It also marks a significant step away from the party ‘old guard’ and is an important stage in her strategy to remove a negative stigma from the party.” Potential for parliamentary representation Above all, Le Pen’s strategy is to cause a massive upset to President Nicolas Sarkozy’s ruling centre-right UMP party and to make a good showing in June’s parliamentary elections. France does not use proportional representation in legislative elections, so even if Le Pen gets a similar turnout in June, the FN is unlikely to win more than a handful of seats, said Crépon. But these seats would give Le Pen and her party a platform in the National Assembly (the FN currently has no members of parliament), and would mark an important point in the resurgence of a party that in the mid-80s had some 35 parliamentary seats. “Le Pen is angling for the FN to become central to the birth of a new right wing in France and to become the number one party of opposition against the Socialists. “She wants to make the French right implode so that she can rebuild it around the ideas and policies of her own party.” A call to abstain in second round French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day Le Pen’s biggest card for undermining Sarkozy will be to call on her voters to abstain in the May 6 second round of the presidential vote. While some 50% of her supporters are likely to cast their ballots for Sarkozy, according to Crépon, a forthright appeal to FN loyalists to boycott the vote and hand Hollande a landslide victory would put the UMP in a perilous position. But there is no clear indication as to how many of her supporters would follow her call, expected on May 1, the day the FN traditionally marks remembrance of medieval French heroine Joan of Arc and when the party’s policies and strategy are outlined by its leader. “Despite her high score in the first round, I believe that a significant proportion of Le Pen’s success has been the result of a protest vote against the other parties,” said Crépon. “The result of the first round can be seen as the FN’s apex, and the party can’t do any better than this,” he said. Crépon explained that besides her traditional supporters, many of those who voted for her on Sunday did so in protest at the mainstream parties and because she talked about issues that concerned them, including poverty, insecurity and immigration. “But still these people do not see the FN as a party that is capable of governing the country,” Crépon said. Sarkozy still has much to gain from courting support from FN voters over the next fortnight – and if he wins, he will fatally undermine Le Pen’s strategy to conquer the French right. “But such a scenario will only be possible if Sarkozy is defeated in the second round. If he wins, Sarkozy will be able to boast that he won the election without the support of the FN and he will have broken Le Pen’s momentum.”
####2012 April 23####A predictable duel - and a shock from the right####François Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy are through to the second round of the election - but it's Marine Le Pen's shock score that's really making headlines.
####2012 April 23####Sarkozy and Hollande battle for also-rans’ supporters####President Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist opponent Francois Hollande came neck and neck in the first round of the country’s presidential election. How supporters of the other main candidates votes will determine the outcome on May 6.The second round of the French presidential election between Socialist candidate Francois Hollande and incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy is by no means a foregone conclusion. The two winning candidates came through neck and neck, with Hollande taking 28.6% and Sarkozy narrowly behind with 27.8%. Key to the success of either candidate is the support they can raise from supporters of the also-rans who failed to get through - in particular the far-right National Front’s Marine Le Pen, far-left firebrand Jean-Luc Melenchon and centrist Francois Bayrou. An Ipsos poll taken on Sunday predicts that the Socialist candidate is likely to come through with 54% against Sarkozy’s 45% in the May 6 second round. Far-left support for Hollande French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day According to the Ipsos poll, Hollande can count on 86% of supporters of Melenchon, who took 11% in Sunday’s first round. Despite his longstanding enmity with the Socialist candidate, Melenchon told supporters on Sunday that the priority was for his followers to turn out massively on May 6 to defeat Sarkozy, even if he could not bring himself to mention Hollande by name. "I call on you to come out on May 6 and beat Sarkozy without asking for anything in exchange,” he said. “I urge you: don't drag your heels, mobilise as though it were me you were sending to victory in the presidential election.” National Front sits on the fence Sarkozy, who heads France’s centre-right ruling UMP party, is less likely to benefit from any endorsement from the Far Right’s Marine le Pen’s National Front, which broke all records on Sunday with more than 18% of the vote. The party, whose unprecedented support means that it is in the strongest possible position to be kingmaker in May’s run-off vote, has yet to endorse either candidate. National Front Vice-President Louis Aliot told France Info radio on Monday: “Neither of them has voiced support for any of the major ideas in our election programme, so it is unlikely [that the party will officially endorse either candidate].” According to Sunday’s IPSOS poll, some 60% of Le Pen supporters will vote for Sarkozy on May 6, while 18% will go with Hollande. The unknown middle ground The biggest uncertainty is with the MoDem centrist party, whose leader Francois Bayrou got 9.1% of Sunday’s vote. In 2007 Bayrou refused to endorse either Segolene Royal or Sarkozy ahead of the 2007 second-round runoff, and his supporters were evenly split between the two candidates. Bayrou said on Sunday that he would speak with both candidates, “tell them what is essential to us and listen to what they have to say – then I will take responsibility.” The Ipsos survey showed a broadly similar split among Bayrou’s supporters from 2007, with 33% expressing support for Hollande, 32% intending to vote for Sarkozy and the remainder abstaining. ‘Anti-Sarkozy referendum’ Hollande, who called for the “biggest possible turnout” against Sarkozy in the second round, is now likely to try to appeal to voters of all shades to deal a death blow to the incumbent’s ambitions. “The ‘anti-Sarkozy referendum’ angle of the next two weeks’ campaigning will be even more pronounced,” said Lille University Professor Remy Lefebvre. “Hollande will behave in a broadly presidential manner, appealing to a broad spectrum of voters with gravitas and look like the candidate who can bring everyone together,” he told AFP. On Sunday Sarkozy challenged Hollande to three televised debates in the run-up to the May 6 vote, a call that was flatly rejected by the Socialist candidate who insisted on following the republican tradition of doing it just once. Accused of “being scared” of facing the incumbent, Hollande replied that “just because [Sarkozy] got a bad result, it doesn’t mean we have to change the rules of the game.”
####2012 April 23####Sarkozy looks to TV debates to snatch election victory####Trailing in the polls for the crucial runoff vote, Nicolas Sarkozy's re-election bid could depend on a live TV debate against rival Francois Hollande. But his chances of snatching victory from the jaws of defeat live on TV appear slim.“Everything must be debated,” insisted French President Nicolas Sarkozy shortly after finding out his bid for re-election would hinge on a run-off vote against Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande. Sarkozy meant exactly what he said, and immediately challenged Hollande to three televised debates before the May 6 vote, instead of the usual one demanded by French electoral tradition. The president wanted three separate bouts on the subjects of economy, international affairs and social issues, raising his demands from a week ago when he suggested two debates would suffice. Sarkozy’s request was derided by Hollande and quickly rebuffed. “He’s like a bad pupil at school who just wants to change the test because he got a bad result,” said the 57-year-old. With Sarkozy trailing Hollande from the first round vote by 27.18% to 28.63%, and polls suggesting a comfortable victory for the socialist in the second round, many see his request for more air time as a sign of desperation. Last throw of the dice Penned in for the evening of May 2, the debate will give Sarkozy around two hours of live TV to argue his case against Hollande, with the eyes of the nation upon him. “It’s the last throw of the dice for Sarkozy,” Professor Phillippe Marliere, a French politics lecturer at London’s UCL, told FRANCE 24. “He is convinced he is far superior when it comes to debating and he will want to show the French people that he, and not Hollande, has the stature of a head of state.” French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day Hugues Nancy, director of Presidential Duels, a documentary on the past five French presidential debates, told French daily 20minutes on Monday that Sarkozy’s request was "ridiculous". “The important thing is not the number of debates but to actually have things to say,” he said. “Sarkozy knew very well that there would not be three debates but he wanted to put himself in the position of challenger." Sarkozy’s eagerness to face off live on TV will be fuelled by memories of his performance in 2007, when he was widely considered to have trounced his then-rival for the Elysees, Segolene Royal. That night, Royal could not hide her growing agitation at Sarkozy and slammed his ‘political immorality’. A smiling Sarkozy replied: “One needs to be calm to be president”. Hollande ‘running scared’ Only weeks ago in a briefing to journalists Sarkozy reportedly said that he would “pulverise” Hollande in the live debate. On Monday, the president’s campaign team piled the pressure on Hollande, accusing him of running away from the challenge. “He is afraid to confront Sarkozy, who has strength, skill and experience,” said Francois Cope, secretary general of Sarkozy’s UMP party. Sarkozy is not the first president, struggling to make up a first round deficit, to demand more than one TV debate before the run-off vote. Valery Giscard d’Estaing wanted two face-offs with Francois Mitterrand in 1981. He did not get his way and went on to lose the election. The ‘debate about the debate’, as it has been dubbed in France, rages on, with Hollande’s supporters eager to scorn Sarkozy. “Sarkozy names all the bosses of the TV channels; he is not going to start deciding on what the programmes are,” Bernard Poignant, the socialist Mayor of Quimper sarcastically remarked to journalists. Pierre Moscovici, Hollande’s spokesman, was equally scathing. “There is no reason to make a special case for Mr Sarkozy just because he is the first incumbent president to have lost the first round vote,” he said. Hollande a seasoned politician UCL’s Phillippe Marliere believes Sarkozy should not underestimate the debating skills of his rival, who is a seasoned politician, despite having never held a ministerial post in government, a fact Sarkozy supporters are quick to point out. “Hollande has been in politics for over 30 years. He has led the Socialist Party, which is a difficult thing to do,” said Marliere. “He has done a good job healing the fractions and uniting rivals." “He is very composed and statesmanlike, unlike Segolene Royal, and that will play well on TV with the French voters,” he added. The presidential debate dates back to 1974, when Valery Giscard d’Estaing went toe to toe with Francois Mitterrand. Since then they have remained a pivotal moment in the fight for the country’s top job and are watched by millions across France. Only in 2002, when Jacques Chirac refused to meet the far right’s Jean-Marie Le Pen, a shock second round candidate, did the TV debate not take place. According to Marliere, it would take something dramatic during the debate for the course of the 2012 election to be altered. “Hollande would have to make a serious blunder to lose. Going back as far as I can remember, no candidate has ever lost the second round as a result of a disastrous performance in the TV debate,” he said. “A few votes may be lost here and there, but most of the time it does not impact on a voter’s choice.” Sarkozy might have to think of another way to "pulverise" his opponent before the French return to the polls on May 6.  
####2012 April 23####Thomas Klau, Head of the Paris office, European Council on Foreign Relations####Douglas Herbert meets Thomas Klau, a senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. They discuss the French presidential elections and the rise of far-right candidate Marine Le Pen. Nicolas Sarkozy could be ousted by voters in the run-off, and a win for Socialist Hollande would mark a rare victory for the left on the European continent.
####2012 April 24####Europe's far right: from fringe to mainstream####They say multiculturalism has failed. They say mass immigration is a threat to national identity. They don't trust the European Union or their own elected leaders. This is the modern face of the far-right. Marine Le Pen is the perfect example of how the far-right has moved from the fringe to the mainstream across Western Europe. Laura Baines and her panel discuss how this trend has emerged, and whether it is set to continue.David HANLEY, Professor of European Politics, University of Portsmouth Jacqueline HÉNARD, Writer and polical analyst; Laurent CHAMBON, Political Analyst; Tharsy PETROPOULOS, Chief Editor, Athens News. Watch the second part here Produced by Sara Bertilsson, Mary Colombel and Wassim Nasr.
####2012 April 24####Europe's far right: from fringe to mainstream (part 2)####They say multiculturalism has failed. They say mass immigration is a threat to national identity. They don't trust the European Union or their own elected leaders. This is the modern face of the far-right. Marine Le Pen is the perfect example of how the far-right has moved from the fringe to the mainstream across Western Europe. Laura Baines and her panel discuss how this trend has emerged, and whether it is set to continue.David HANLEY, Professor of European Politics, University of Portsmouth; Jacqueline HÉNARD, Writer and polical analyst; Laurent CHAMBON, Political Analyst; Tharsy PETROPOULOS, Chief Editor, Athens News. Watch the first part here Produced by Sara Bertilsson, Mary Colombel and Wassim Nasr. 
####2012 April 24####Hollande looks to far right as he forges runoff strategy####Socialist presidential candidate Francois Hollande has turned heads in France by choosing to directly address the nearly 6 million voters who cast a ballot for the far right in the first round.In the wake of the first round of France’s presidential election, Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande is on a mission to protect his momentum and ride it all the way to the Elysee Presidential Palace. The opposition challenger won the first round on April 22, but with a much slimmer margin than was first thought, and under the shadow of an unprecedented electoral surge for the far-right National Front. After taking 28.63% of Sunday’s votes to incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy’s 27.18% tally, Hollande has not missed a campaign beat, plunging back into a full schedule of rallies and television appearances. And to some observers’ surprise, he has rushed to address people who cast ballots for the far right. National Front candidate Marine Le Pen gathered 17.9% of first round votes, a historic high for her anti-immigration party. Front cover of Libération daily on Tuesday, April 24 Speaking after results confirmed his status as the election’s frontrunner, Hollande said the far right’s extraordinary score demanded attention and a deeper understanding of the “anger” expressed by many French. Instead of feeling proud, Hollande said the French under Sarkozy had often felt “lowered” and “belittled”. The Socialist hopeful delivered a much clearer appeal in a front page interview published Tuesday in the left-leaning Liberation daily. "There is a part of Le Pen electorate that comes from the left… who are against privilege, against globalisation, against a Europe that doesn’t work. It’s up to me to convince them that it is the left that will defend them,” Hollande said. While he reserved no compliments for Le Pen herself or her anti-immigration programme, Hollande’s interview drooled empathy for a “suffering electorate, made up of low-paid workers, manual staff and workers who feel like they’ve been abandoned,” and who turned toward the National Front. “He wants to be the president of all the French and is projecting himself in that possibility,” said Michel Wieviorka, a French sociologist, supporter of Hollande and author of the book For the Next Left (Pour la prochaine gauche, Robert Laffont), “He should easily win the runoff, but to do so needs to pick up a fraction of Marine Le Pen’s first round votes.” Hollande’s own camp has consistently bashed Nicolas Sarkozy for trying to appeal to the far right with the objective siphoning National Front votes. Marine Le Pen’s nearly 18% support may be irresistible fruit for Hollande, but the Socialist candidate could be playing with fire. Game of percentages According to Sylvain Crepon, a professor at Paris 10 University and an expert on the far right in France, Le Pen will likely tell her supporters to abstain in the second round, but it is uncertain if they will follow her instructions. “About half of Le Pen’s followers, consider themselves right-wingers above all and will tend to vote for Nicolas Sarkozy to prevent a Socialist presidency,” Crepon explained. “Marine Le Pen has an interest in seeing Nicolas Sarkozy defeated. Her goal is to see the right in France implode and recover some of its members around the FN,” he added. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day According to different opinion polls this week, 45% to 60% of people who voted for Le Pen will transfer their vote to Sarkozy in the runoff, while only 18% to 26% said they would throw their weight behind Hollande. Those forecasts seemed to give Hollande the numbers he needs to be crowned the winner on May 6, but Alexandre Dezé, a professor of Political Science at Montpellier University and author of the book National Front: The Conquest of Power? (FN : La conquête du pouvoir ?, Armand Colin editions) warned that opinion polls were untrustworthy and prone to change. For Dezé, Sarkozy was better prepared and more willing to charm National Front’s electorate. “Sarkozy will come out strong, we have already seen him employ elements of [former FN candidate] Jean-Marie Le Pen’s key campaign speech in 2002,” Dezé said. “He is appealing to the poor and disenfranchised, calling for a “real” May 1 Worker’s Day rally, showing hostility to the media. It is really a complete and worrying revival of the National Front’s rhetoric,” the Montpellier professor added. Disappointing the Left While some analysts calculated Hollande’s chances of picking up some of Marine Le Pen’s sympathisers for the May 6 presidential duel, others challenged the overall wisdom of such a strategy. And it seemed Hollande was well aware of the danger of pushing away his natural allies on the left by trying to appeal to the far right. “The mistake I will not make is, in reaching out to others, to forget our own,” Hollande told Liberation. “I am a socialist, I am the voice of the left, but I am addressing all the French because I want to be the president of unity.” According to Wieviorka, there is little chance Hollande will spoil support within his own ranks. “Hollande will tell FN voters that he understands their message, and will ask them to trust him to solve their problems. But he is not going to change his own message.” An April 22 survey by the French polling firm Ipsos revealed that while the demographics of the National Front’s electorate may be shifting slightly, the issues close to its heart remain unchanged. Sixty-one percent of people who voted for Marine Le Pen on Sunday told pollsters that immigration was their top concern, while 44% of them said crime was the country’s most pressing problem. The French sociologist also wondered how much Hollande or Sarkozy could really do in less than two weeks to win over voters. “Hollande has his votes on the left secured… I think people have already made their choice.”
####2012 April 24####Just who voted for Marine Le Pen?####We look at just how Marine Le Pen managed to get a shocking score of almost 20% of votes in the first round of the French election - and how she has changed her party's image.
####2012 April 24####Marine Le Pen and the European far-right####The foreign press reacts to Marine Le Pen's high score - trying to work why people voted for her, and what makes her different to other European far-right parties.The Independent's front page blames the fear of Hollande winning for the markets plummeting yesterday - but as Der Spiegel explains, any worries about the left have been eclipsed by alarm about the far right. As for what those voters will do next - the Guardian says it's by no means a given they'll pick Sarkozy - while El Pais explains Le Pen's priority is to destroy the UMP party and set herself up as leader of the opposition.  
####2012 April 24####Le Pen casts a shadow over the second round####It's Marine Le Pen's shock score of nearly 20% in the first round that makes headlines today - how far right is Nicolas Sarkozy willing to go to win over those voters?Le Monde calls the vote a referendum on the outgoing president, which Sarkozy has lost - saying a lot of Le Pen's voters are disappointed one-time Sarkozy supporters. L'Humanité blames the president for Le Pen's high score - saying his right-wing drive simply pushed voters towards the original version. Le Figaro says there's still hope Sarkozy can win if her voters pick him - but La Croix points out the electoral mathematics really isn't that simple.
####2012 April 24####Stakes are high as Sarkozy flirts with France's far right####French president Nicolas Sarkozy is courting the 6.4 million voters who cast ballots for Marine Le Pen's National Front party last Sunday. But on Wednesday, the incumbent president insisted he would make no deals with the far right.  With less than a fortnight to go before the second round of France's presidential election, President Nicolas Sarkozy has embarked on a high-stakes gamble to seduce voters who supported far-right National Front (FN) candidate Marine Le Pen in Sunday’s first round. Sarkozy needs some 80 per cent of the FN’s 6.4 million voters to back him in the second round on May 6. But polls show he only has 60 per cent. The next two weeks will see a concerted drive to win the others over. Courting the FN is a risky operation for the incumbent president and his centre-right UMP party. Sarkozy says no deal with National Front French President Nicolas Sarkozy said Wednesday that he would not do a deal with the far-right, but that those who voted for the National Front party should not be demonised. There will "not be an accord with the National Front (and) no ministers" from the extreme-right party, said Sarkozy. Both he and his Socialist challenger are trying to woo the over six million voters who picked the far right in the first round of France's presidential election. (AFP) Not only does Sarkozy risk alienating potential centrist supporters of Francois Bayrou (who got 9.3 per cent in Sunday’s vote), but there is also a danger that he will further legitimise the French far right by delving deeper into populist themes like immigration and national identity. Sarkozy’s post-election flirtation with FN voters – whose candidate Marine Le Pen got a record-breaking 17.9 per cent of votes on Sunday – began in earnest on Monday in a speech at Saint-Cyr-Sur-Loire near Tours, southwest of Paris. High on the list were protecting the French national identity, tightening national borders, and supporting workers and young people affected by the economic crisis – all themes dear to the National Front. Sarkozy even named the FN and said that he respected the party’s voters: “Some people [on the left] hold their noses. I want to say that we have heard [the FN voters] and know how to respond with precise commitments.” ‘Hateful’ populism Former UMP spokesman Dominique Paillé, now a senior advisor to centrist Jean-Louis Borloo (head of the Parti Radical, in coalition with the UMP), told FRANCE 24 on Tuesday that Sarkozy was making a mistake by playing hard into FN territory. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day “The themes he should be discussing to win [far-right voters] are social mobility, employment and the cost of living,” he said. “These are the only areas where he has genuine credibility.” Paillé warned the incumbent that he should refrain from adopting the FN’s rhetoric on Europe and immigration. “All that this will do is stigmatise sectors of French society, create divisions and pit people against each other,” he said. “Sarkozy may be a candidate, but he is still president. A president must bring people together, not set them apart. For a president to divide his people through populism is hateful. It is a big mistake and it will cost him many centrist voters.” Paillé’s view is shared by Jean-Yves Camus, one of France’s leading experts on the far right and a senior researcher at the Paris-based Institute of International and Strategic Relations. “Sarkozy’s campaign so far has already been extremely right-wing,” he said. “It’s hard to see how it could lean any further to the right without seriously upsetting his core voters.” A long-term boost to the FN? But the danger goes beyond what Sarkozy is prepared to risk in the short term in his desperate bid for the far-right vote. Camus said the president was “likely to go deeper into issues of national identity and immigration to attract FN voters” in the run-up to the May 6 vote, regardless of the effect such a strategy may have on the centrist vote. “However, if Sarkozy gets back into power, he will certainly not crack down hard on immigration because he knows it is bad politics. This will cause more frustration and certainly strengthen the FN in the long term.” In his 2007 presidential campaign, Sarkozy was able to eclipse the FN by promising to be tough on immigration and crime. But he was then unable to fulfill those promises, feeding far-right frustration with his government and strengthening Marine Le Pen’s position. Paillé agreed that by addressing FN issues Sarkozy was once again gifting credibility to the far right, a dangerous tactic at a time when Marine Le Pen is trying to destroy the UMP and make her party the de facto conservative voice of opposition. “Sarkozy’s term in office and the discourse of his campaign has allowed Le Pen and her party to grow in stature,” Paillé said. “That he is continuing to do so shows that he has his back to the wall.” Hollande more the ‘statesman’ Meanwhile, Socialist Candidate Francois Hollande is also courting elements of the FN vote, but “doing it in a more measured way”, according to Camus. The winner of Sunday’s first round has appealed only to those voters with socialist sympathies while studiously avoiding far-right themes that are alien to his party’s ideology. Front cover of Libération daily on Tuesday, April 24 “Hollande sees that there are elements among those who voted for Le Pen who are potential Socialist voters,” he said. “But he is going about it quietly and calmly, and in terms of policy he has stuck to his guns. “The French expect their presidents to rise above the political fray. Unlike Sarkozy, Hollande is behaving much more like a statesman.”
####2012 April 25####Sarkozy shifts, Hollande digs in on foreign voting rights####French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist François Hollande are vying for votes ahead of a May 6 presidential runoff over the right of foreigners to vote in local elections after the anti-immigration National Front did well in the first round.With the first round of voting in French presidential elections over and the second round just over a week away, the question of whether foreign residents should have the right to vote in local elections has surfaced as a potentially influential campaign issue. Under current law, EU citizens can vote in local elections, but Socialist challenger François Hollande has proposed extending that right to non-EU residents of France. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day Current centre-right President Nicolas Sarkozy is trying to emphasise Socialist challenger François Hollande’s proposal in order to turn far-right immigrant-wary National Front voters against him. The 18 percent of the French electorate that cast their ballots for Marine Le Pen are indeed now up for grabs as the president and his rival approach what could be a close runoff vote on 6 May. Some of Sarkozy’s surrogates, including his campaign spokesperson Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet and his Union for a Popular Movement party leader Jean-François Copé, have attacked Hollande and his Socialist party for his stance on the issue. In a televised debate Monday night, 2007 Socialist presidential candidate and Hollande’s former partner Ségolène Royal, specified that foreigners’ voting rights were “not a priority” for Socialists. But wary of appearing inconsistent at the most crucial point of his presidential run, Hollande swiftly sought to reaffirm his support of a measure that would allow these residents to vote in local elections. “Everything that I’ve talked about in my campaign, all my policy engagements, will be done in the first five-year term,” he said on a campaign stop in northern France. Sarkozy’s shifting stance Sarkozy himself has changed position on the subject. Appearing on TV on Tuesday morning, he expressed his opposition to a measure that he “never implemented” and “never wanted”. “Do you think that the French people want a government, a president, who thinks giving foreigners the right to vote is a priority?” he bristled. But in 2005, Sarkozy noted in an interview with daily newspaper Le Monde “that it would not be abnormal for a foreigner with working papers, who pays taxes and has lived in France for at least 10 years, to be able to vote in local elections.” Before that, in 2001, Sarkozy had already stated that he was in favour of foreigners voting in local elections in his book “Libre” (“Free”). “As long as [foreign residents] pay taxes, respect our laws, have been living on our territory for a certain amount of time….I don’t see how we can logically deprive them of a means of expressing their opinion on what their life is like,” he wrote. Today, the president justifies his about-face on the issue by pointing to changing times. “I think that 15 years ago, the risk of cultural ghettos was not what it is today,” he explained Tuesday during his TV interview.  
####2012 April 25####Hollande proposes four changes to EU fiscal pact####French Socialist presidential candidate François Hollande said Wednesday that if elected, he will submit four proposals for renegotiating the EU fiscal treaty, including the creation of eurobonds and a financial transaction tax.AFP - French presidential frontrunner Francois Hollande said Wednesday that if he is elected he will send his European partners four proposals to amend the EU fiscal pact. Speaking at a campaign news conference ahead of the May 6 election, he also welcomed a comment from European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi, who earlier said the continent needed joint measures to support growth. "The day after the vote, if I receive a mandate, I will address a memorandum to the heads of state on renegotiating the treaty," Hollande said. Hollande said he would call for "the creation of eurobonds, not to pool debts but to finance industrial infrastructure projects" and "free up more financing possibilities from the European Investment Bank." He also said he would call for "the creation of a tax on financial transactions" and "mobilising the remnants of European structural funds that are now unused." Hollande also said he welcomed the remarks by Draghi, "who has himself just said that the fiscal pact needs to accompanied by a growth pact."  
####2012 April 25####Sarkozy: 'Le Pen isn't incompatible with the French Republic'####Nicolas Sarkozy's full-on chase after Marine Le Pen's voters has gone too far for a lot of France's newspapers, as they accuse him of borrowing the rhetoric of the Second World War.Libération accuses the president of breaking the ultimate taboo in French politics - the wall between the mainstream right and the National Front. L'Humanité says he's borrowed the language of Marshal Pétain - and they're furious he's trying to hold a meeting on May Day. Le Monde is looking at where Marine Le Pen goes from here - saying her aim is to destroy the UMP party and become the sole leader of the opposition on the right to a future President Hollande.
####2012 April 25####Sarkozy compared to Vichy leader for courting far right####Two French left-wing newspapers have published damning articles likening President Nicolas Sarkozy to WWII-era leader Marshall Philippe Pétain for wooing far-right voters ahead of the May 6 runoff in the country’s presidential election.French President Nicolas Sarkozy and his aides on Wednesday accused the left-wing press of “intellectual terrorism” for comparing the incumbent leader’s flirting with extreme right voters with wartime collaboration with the Nazis. Leading left-wing daily Libération had published a sombre and funereal black and white photograph of the president on its front page. At the bottom of the page was a quote of Sarkozy saying that far-right National Front (FN) leader Marine Le Pen was “compatible with the Republic”. In an editorial, the newspaper accused the president of “Pétaniste” zeal for using the May 1 International Workers' Day celebration to hold a rally in defence of “real work”. The reference was to wartime collaborationist leader of Vichy France Marshall Philippe Pétain, who in 1941 declared May 1 a “national celebration of work and harmony”. Communist-linked daily L’Humanité was even more explicit, publishing pictures of Sarkozy and Pétain side by side on the front page. L’Humanité accused Sarkozy of attempting a “takeover bid” of May 1, which is traditionally a left-wing celebration, as part of his campaign to woo the 6.4 million French voters who cast their ballot for Le Pen in the election's first round on Sunday. Sarkozy desperately needs those voters. In the first round, the incumbent came second with 27.8 percent of the vote against Socialist candidate Francois Hollande’s 28.6 percent. Hollande is tipped to win the second round by almost ten points, unless Sarkozy can convince the 18 percent who supported anti-immigration and anti-Europe Le Pen to vote for him and not stay away from the polls, as many are expected to do. Gloves-off offensive On Wednesday, Finance Minister Francois Baroin accused Libération and L’Humanité of “intellectual terrorism” for their attacks on the president. “The Libération front page is a scandal,” he told Europe 1 radio. “And L’Humanité is completely unacceptable. Putting Sarkozy next to Pétain is scandalous. “We do not accept this intellectual terrorism. We fought the National Front. We have not formed an alliance with the National Front. We never have and we never will.” Although Sarkozy confirmed that there would be no official alliance, the tone of his speech on Tuesday made clear that he was launching a gloves-off offensive to bring France’s National Front supporters onside. He told supporters in Longjumeau, a suburb in the south of Paris, that voters who had turned to Marine Le Pen’s anti-immigration party had done so legitimately and that the FN was “compatible with the Republic”. He also said that nationhood, immigration and border security, all subjects close to the FN’s heart, “had to be talked about” and that he would tackle them head on “so that [FN voters] understand clearly that we have heard their message”. ‘The honour of the country’ French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day For Libération and L’Humanité, Sarkozy’s lurch to the right breaks a long tradition of refusal by the political mainstream to pander to or legitimise the policies of the far right. Libération deputy editor Sylvain Bourmeau told FRANCE 24 on Wednesday that Sarkozy’s speech in Longjummeau was “a sad and shameful day for France”. He added that the funereal black and white front page reflected “the weird echo that reminds us of the worst chapter in French history. “Yesterday was a day that will go down in history, the day that the country’s [mainstream] right wing decided to end what used to be a clear separation with the far right,” he said. “If Sarkozy loses, what will remain of the right wing? Will they be working together with the extreme right?” Bourmeau went on to accuse Baroin of using a typical far-right strategy in “criticising the media elite”, and said that using these tactics was a sign of “weakness and anxiety” on the part of Sarkozy’s conservative UMP party. For Libération, he added, the significance of Sarkozy’s flirtation with the National Front went far beyond what was at stake for Sarkozy in the short term. “This is not just about the second round,” he said. “This is about the honour of the country. It is a question of principle and it is much more important than the election.”  
####2012 April 25####Has Sarkozy gone too far in pushing for far-right votes?####Nicolas Sarkozy has crossed a line now for many of the French papers, telling a France 24 journalist that there are no taboos in talking to the far-right National Front.
####2012 April 26####Game of tug of war... as presidential candidates seek out support####Taking sides in the French election - Tariq Ramadan finds himself caught in the middle but says he's against both candidates. Bernadette Chirac, however, is firmly behind President Sarkozy - she lets us in on her predictions for the second round.
####2012 April 26####A rather dangerous candidate and real work, for real workers####In today's Campaign Chronicles: controversial Muslim academic Tariq Ramadan causes a stir, "self-defence" for police officers divides opinion, and Marine Le Pen calls for order among the electioneering. We also take a look at why one newspaper thinks François Hollande is a dangerous man.
####2012 April 26####A life in pictures####We take a look at the "dangerous man" on The Economist's front cover, as well as a US marine discharged for criticising Obama on Facebook. Finally, 0 to 12 in less than three minutes: a photographer father captures his daughter's young life, in one short video.
####2012 April 26####Presidential Election: Can Sarkozy woo the far-right?####Nicolas Sarkozy versus François Hollande. The stage is set for round two of the French presidential election. But it has been upset by the record performance of the far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen, who outperformed her father's shock result back in 2002.On the set: Jean-Marc Gonin, Senior writer, Le Figaro Magazine; Philip Turle, Journalist, RFI.
####2012 April 26####French centrists struggle to hold the middle ground####After a surprise surge by the far-right and far-left in Sunday's presidential election, French centrist voters have been stripped of their kingmaker status. As their defeated candidate wavers ahead of a May 6 runoff, they are increasingly divided.Centrist leader François Bayrou has promised to weigh in on the second round of France’s presidential vote before Election Day. But while he hopes to hold sway on the May 6 contest pitting incumbent president Nicolas Sarkozy against Socialist challenger François Hollande, the moderate politician seems to be losing control of his own Democratic Movement (MoDem) party. Bayrou’s 9.1% support placed him fifth in the first round of the election, behind far-right leader Marine Le Pen (19.7%) and extreme-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon (11.1%). On Wednesday, he sent a letter to Sarkozy and Hollande, asking the two men to reply to his concerns in view of a potential second-round endorsement. This week, the centrist leader appeared to be distancing himself from Sarkozy, after statements by the incumbent that likened fiscal demands made by centrist voters to those of the far-right. Bayrou said such comparisons were “absurd” and “offensive”, but stopped short of saying he would deny Sarkozy his support. Bayrou has pledged to make his choice known on May 3, the day after the two remaining presidential candidates will face off in a much-anticipated television debate. It remains to be seen if people who voted for Bayrou on April 22 will actually take his preference into account as they vote in the second round. According to a survey by the French polling firm Ipsos, 34% of MoDem sympathizers are expected to vote for Hollande, while 33% said they would back Sarkozy. The remaining centrist electorate said it would abstain. From ‘third’ to ‘fifth’ man A parliamentarian from southwestern France since the late 1980s, Bayrou was the MoDem’s candidate in the 2002 and 2007 presidential elections. His 18.57% first round score in 2007 won him the title of France’s “third man” and confirmed his place as the legitimate successor of the once important centrist party, UDF. However, 2009 European parliamentary elections and 2010 French regional elections handed Bayrou and the MoDem bitter defeats. “He has reached bottom,” explained Eric Bonnet, director of opinion studies at the BVA polling agency. “He has lost the centrist image he forged in 2007. Voters on the right consider him left-leaning and voters on the left see him as a right-winger,” Bonnet said. “This is a complicated period for the centre,” admitted Stephane Cosse, President of the MoDem’s branch in Paris. “We are experiencing a polarization of politics, which will last at least until the second round.” Cosse argued that his party nevertheless remains an indispensable political force in France. “The centrist sensibility is deeply rooted in our country," he told FRANCE 24. In the last presidential election, Bayrou eventually decided to sit out the run-off, keeping his personal choice secret and telling supporters to vote with their own conscience. Leaving the middle road The public expects a clear endorsement from Bayrou this time, but many within the MoDem are no longer waiting for their leader to get off the fence. And like voters, centrist lawmakers seem deeply divided over their choice. On Monday, some forty MoDem elected leaders publicly backed Hollande in the runoff, saying their choice was based on “a need for clarity and change.” Olivier Henno, one of the handful of local centrist mayors who were part of the group, said “we no longer want to procrastinate.” However, Jean Arthuis, a prominent centrist in the French Senate and an ally of Bayrou in the past, has said he would back Sarkozy. Arthuis called on centrists of all stripes to create alliances with the Right ahead of legislative elections in June. Standing firm with Bayrou, Stephane Cosse said he was not ready to say who he would support in the presidential runoff. "We must closely listen to the statements of both candidates. Wait to see if they veer further to the right or left,” he said. But as the countdown clock to May 6 ticks down, Bayrou and those loyal to him could find France’s political middle road an increasingly lonelier place to walk.
####2012 April 26####French Presidential Runoff: Dear far-right voters...####We are now 10 days away from the second round run-off of the French presidential election. As expected, the ballot will feature François Hollande versus Nicolas Sarkozy. But the wild card will be Marine Le Pen and her 6.4 million voters in the first round. Both candidates want her voters, but how far can they go? And will it work?On the set: Jérôme Guedj, Member, French Socialist Party; Benjamin Haddad, National Secretary, UMP.
####2012 April 26####The economy makes a campaign comeback####Jobs and the economy are top of François Hollande's agenda - as he tries to make his voice heard amid Sarkozy's rush for far-right National Front voters.Les Echos sizes up the two candidates' plans to cut France's sky-high jobless rate - and says neither of them will make much difference. L'Express accuses Sarkozy of putting pressure on firms to delay layoffs until after the election to avoid embarrassing him - while Libération says his right-wing rhetoric is alienating a lot of his own party.
####2012 April 26####Can François Hollande save French jobs?####The Socialist candidate is trying to get his preferred subjects to the top of the agenda - but will his moves to restart the French economy really work?
####2012 April 26####David Mercer, Democratic strategist and President of Mercer & Associates####Douglas Herbert meets Democratic strategist David Mercer to discuss the Franco-American relationship. Socialist candidate François Hollande is heading for the final round of the French election ahead of incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy. Washington is watching the presidential race from afar, and wondering what is in store for US-French ties.
####2012 April 27####Written in the stars####MEDIAWATCH FRANCE, 27/04/12. Controversial academic Tariq Ramadan says he's now supporting Sarkozy in the presidential race as a joke on his website. We also take a look forward to next week's televised debate between the two presidential candidates. Finally, an astrologer lets us in on her tips for the outcome next Sunday night.
####2012 April 27####'I’m Arab, a Muslim, and I vote Marine Le Pen'####If French Muslims are largely left-leaning in their voting preferences, there are exceptions. France24.com spoke to three French Muslims of Arab descent, all of whom vote for the far-right National Front party. Here are their testimonies.Karima, policewoman: “Many of my colleagues of Arab descent vote far right, but don’t dare say so.” A 33-year-old naturalised French citizen of Moroccan origin, Karima is a mother of three, married to a Frenchman. She arrived in France 15 years ago, and has a diploma in Computer Science from a French university. Now she works as a policewoman in Paris and declined to provide her last name. Karima says she started becoming interested in the ideas of Jean-Marie Le Pen, founder of the extreme-right National Front party, in 2002. That was almost a decade before Le Pen handed over the party leadership to his youngest daughter, Marine, in 2011. These days, Karima says she regularly attends party meetings and votes for National Front candidates whenever she can. “My vote is an expression of my rejection of certain Muslim Arabs [in France], whom I personally consider ‘thugs’. They’ve destroyed French society. At least in the old days, they lived in the same suburbs,” said Karima, referring to the largely immigrant, impoverished “banlieues” of major French metropolises. “But for the last several years, the mayor of Paris, Bertrand Delanoe, has done everything in his power to house them in nice neighbourhoods – like the 15th district, where I live.” She says she is generally furious at these French-born citizens of North African origin who show no consideration for their country. If the National Front ever gets a candidate elected to the presidency, she would like to see people who “don’t deserve” their French nationality stripped of their citizenship. According to Karima, many of her “colleagues of Arab descent vote far right, but don’t dare say so”. Farid Smahi, former National Front office employee: “I’m Arab, I celebrate Ramadan, and I vote Le Pen” Farid Smahi, 59, is a Frenchman of Algerian descent, a father of three children, and graduate of a French university with a degree in French literature. He currently works for an association that offers aid to people in need in the Paris area. His father fought in the French army during World War II, before becoming an activist for Algerian independence. “You can’t be both Algerian and French,” Smahi noted. His conversion to far-right politics occurred when he returned from a trip to the Palestinian Territories, which he describes as a giant open-air prison. His opposition to French citizens having two passports, coupled with his appreciation for Jean-Marie Le Pen’s criticism of Israel, led Smahi to join the National Front. Though he was once employed by one of the National Front’s bureaus, Smahi no longer works for the party; he was asked to leave after publicly denouncing Marine Le Pen’s “closeness with Zionists”. Before he joined the party, Smahi confronted then-leader Jean-Marie Le Pen over his stance toward France’s black and Arab residents. He says he wanted to make sure that Le Pen was not planning to expel them. “I looked him in the eye, and he told me that was not his plan,” Smahi recalled. “I saw that he was an experienced and free-thinking politican.” According to Smahi, most of the Arabs and Muslims who voted for Marine Le Pen in the first round of this year’s presidential election are those who arrived in France recently: doctors and engineers, for example, who had good jobs in their native countries, but decided to flee the repressive dictatorships of these countries. “These are people who suffered to become French,” Smahi said. “Unlike those others who were born here and continue to vote for the left, when they still don’t understand that it’s the left that dumped them in the ghettos to begin with.” Smahi expressed his distaste for Arabs and Muslims who have not yet adopted the ways of their country of residence. “I’m Arab, I celebrate Ramadan, and I vote National Front. I don’t like halal meat anymore. I can’t stand women who wear the headscarf, and even less, women who wear the burqa. France is a beautiful country,” he said. “In France, we drink wine and we eat pork. My Muslim compatriots need to calm down, and stop imposing their religion on society.” His bottom line: “We’re in France: love it or leave it.” Myriam, hotel maid: “The day the National Front is in power, things will be different.” Myriam, aged 45, is a French woman of Tunisian origin who also declined to provide her last name. Married, with four children, she has lived in the Parisian suburb of Melun for the past 20 years. After dropping out of school because of “family problems”, she began working as a maid in a Parisian hotel. Myriam does not have kind things to say about her black and Arab compatriots. In her view, they are the cause of all of France’s problems. “If I could change my origins, I’d do it with pleasure,” she admitted. “The only concern of Blacks and Arabs is looking for a way to get around French law to profit from the social benefits offered here, and to make money without making any effort. They’ve ruined our reputation,” she said. “It’s true that some of them struggle and work hard, but many others…take advantage of the help offered by the government. The day the National Front is in power, things will be different.”  
####2012 April 27####Sir Howard Davies, Economist, Visiting Faculty Member at Sciences Po Paris####As eurozone leaders continue to grapple with the debt crisis, the "austerity vs growth" debate remains in the spotlight. Is Europe a lost continent? Markus Karlsson puts the question to Sir Howard Davies, who made that very claim two years ago. He's a former Deputy Governor of the Bank of England and a former director of the London School of Economics. Now he is a visiting professor at the political science university Sciences Po here in Paris.
####2012 April 27####Marine Le Pen's 'neither-nor'####Marine Le Pen's surprise showing in the first round of the presidential vote has become the major factor in the run-up to the second round. Could her supporters swing it one way or the other? It is reported she is unlikely to back either Hollande or Sarkozy as she prepares the ground for political gains in June's parliamentary vote. That's the focus for this Friday, 27th April 2012.Le Figaro: "Au second tour, le FN s'oriente vers le ni-ni" (National Front leaning to a neither-nor in recommendation to voters for second round) Le Parisien-Aujourd'hui-en-France: "Marine Le Pen défend ses électeurs" (Marine Le Pen defends her voters) Le Parisien-Aujourd'hui-en-France: "Croix de Lorraine et vote Le Pen à Colombey-les-deux-églises " (High support for Marine Le Pen in Colombey-les-deux-Eglises, Charles de Gaulle's home and burial place). 20 Minutes: "Nicolas Sarkozy progresse mais reste largement distancé" (Sarkozy makes gains but remains the outsider)
####2012 April 27####Gard's left wing regroups after far-right shock####The Gard in southern France was the only place far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen got more votes than any other candidate in Sunday’s first presidential election round. Local left-wing supporters are determined to halt Le Pen’s advances.Socialists and their left-wing allies in the Gard region of southern France were in the fighting spirit on Friday in the face of a surging far-right National Front (FN). Nimes, the principal city in the region, is best known for its Roman-era amphitheatre and the controversial and popular corrida bull fights that kick off each May. But the city is now also on the map for being at the heart of the only French administrative department where the FN’s candidate, Marine Le Pen, came out on top in the first round of the presidential election on April 22. Nationally, the FN scored a record-breaking 17.9 percent. In the Gard, 25.5 percent of voters cast their ballot for Le Pen’s anti-immigration and anti-Europe party, up ten points from the previous election in 2007. And as incumbent centre-right President Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist opponent François Hollande fight for the second round on May 6, both candidates desperately need to secure a share of the FN vote. ‘A forest fire just waiting to get out of control’ Polls show Sarkozy trailing his Socialist rival by up to ten points, but the incumbent president is hoping support from a majority of FN voters will considerably narrow that gap, or indeed turn the tables in his favour. While Sarkozy has wholeheartedly embraced many of the far right's campaign themes, the Socialists, including those in the Gard, have been at pains to steer clear of the less palatable issues, such as immigration and national identity. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day “I’m not going to go hunting votes on Marine Le Pen’s territory,” Damien Alery, Socialist Party (PS) leader of the Gard regional council, told FRANCE 24. “It isn’t my style and it’s not what is going to gain me respect from voters.” Alery said that Le Pen “frightened” him and that delving into FN ideology to win voters was like “lighting a fire in the forest and letting it get out of control.” “We must recognise that the high FN result was not a show of loyalty to Le Pen,” he said. “It was a vote of anger, vengeance and ill will towards Sarkozy and his government’s record [since coming to office in 2007].” Focus on the economy Instead, representatives of a broad coalition of left-wing parties, including the Greens and the far-left Front de Gauche, told a press conference in Nimes on Friday that they would focus on the economic regeneration of a region suffering chronic unemployment. Each agreed that by sticking to issues such as the economy, employment and spending power, the left would win enough voter capital from the FN without having to bow down to the hard core of supporters who hold the party’s extreme views. “Not all of the people who voted for Le Pen in the first round are fascists,” said Patrick Malavieille, regional president of the Front de Gauche, whose first-round candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon has called on his supporters to rally behind Hollande. “Many are simply people who are lost, who have no faith and have no hope.” Christophe Cavard, regional representative for the Green party, added that those FN voters who genuinely held racist and anti-immigration views could simply be ignored. “We can bring round those voters who supported Le Pen because of the economic situation,” he told FRANCE 24. “The racists and the europhobes are beyond our reach. We should not poison ourselves with the FN’s gangrene by trying to win them over.” Looking ahead to June’s parliamentary vote Local Socialists and their allies are all confident that, barring major hiccups in the last days of the campaign, their candidate will oust President Sarkozy come May 6. In fact many are more concerned about the legislative elections that will take place the following month. For Nelly Fontanau, deputy to the Socialist candidate for the Gard parliamentary seat, those elections will be a chance to erase memories of the "sadness" caused by the far-right's surprise result on April 22. “We must capitalise on the shock of the FN win,” she told FRANCE 24. “We need to tell the mainly young and poor voters who supported Le Pen that we have heard them and that we are on their side, but that we cannot leave Europe and that we cannot hate foreigners." But for that to happen, Fontanau and her fellow party members know full well they need Hollande to show them the path to victory first.
####2012 April 27####Hollande calls limiting economic immigration 'essential'####France's Socialist presidential candidate François Hollande said Friday that limiting illegal immigration during an economic crisis was "essential". Immigration has been a key issue since the far right’s strong showing in the election’s first round.AFP - French presidential frontrunner Socialist Francois Hollande said Friday it was vital to limit economic immigration in a time of crisis. "In the period of crisis we are going through, limiting economic immigration is necessary and essential," Hollande told RTL radio. "I also want to fight illegal immigration on the economic front. It is not right that a certain number of employers, in a cynical way, are hiring illegal migrants," he said. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy compared to Vichy leader for courting far right Hollande reiterated his vow to ask parliament to fix the number of immigrants allowed into France every year. "I don't think there will ever be zero immigration, there will always be legal immigration. Can we reduce the number? That's a debate," he said. He added however that he was against reducing the number of foreign students allowed into France to study. "I think that the presence of foreign students in our faculties is an opportunity, not just for the foreign students but for us," he said. Immigration has become a key issue in the campaign for the second round of France's presidential election on May 6 after far right candidate Marine Le Pen of the National Front came third in Sunday's first round with 18 percent. Incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy has shifted further to the right since the first round, vowing to "defend the French way of life", reduce immigration and secure France's borders.  
####2012 April 27####The World This Week - April 27th, 2012####While invectives fly on the French campaign trail over the far-right and its agenda, François Picard warns of the reality check to come when the presidential election’s over and it’s time to face up to Europe’s economic mess.Paul TAYLOR. European Affairs Editor, Reuters; Craig COPETAS. Paris-based journalist. Author, "Bear Hunting with the Politburo"; Sylvie KAUFFMANN. Editorial Director, Le Monde; Stefan DE VRIES. Paris correspondent, RTL4. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Thomas Waterhouse, Paul Makaad. Watch the second part.
####2012 April 27####The World This Week - April 27th, 2012 (part 2)####While invectives fly on the French campaign trail over the far-right and its agenda, François Picard warns of the reality check to come when the presidential election’s over and it’s time to face up to Europe’s economic mess.  Paul TAYLOR. European Affairs Editor, Reuters; Craig COPETAS. Paris-based journalist. Author, "Bear Hunting with the Politburo"; Sylvie KAUFFMANN. Editorial Director, Le Monde; Stefan DE VRIES. Paris correspondent, RTL4. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Thomas Waterhouse, Paul Makaad. Watch the first part.
####2012 April 27####Why French politicians avoid Tariq Ramadan's 'vote'####Despite repeated denials, French incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy insists that controversial scholar Tariq Ramadan supports his Socialist rival, François Hollande, in the 2012 presidential poll. So why are French candidates keen to avoid Ramadan’s support?Approaching the final round of France’s presidential vote, and heading into a week that will feature a much-anticipated televised debate between incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist challenger François Hollande, it would be fair to assume the rival candidates are desperately seeking every winnable vote. But over the past few days, French audiences have been treated to the spectacle of the two candidates doing their best to avoid one man’s endorsement. In a way, it doesn't matter, since the man in question is not even a French citizen and has no right to vote in the May 6 presidential runoff. But a flurry of controversy nonetheless began when Sarkozy told a French TV station this week that Tariq Ramadan, a controversial Muslim intellectual and Swiss national, supported Hollande. “This is a man who solicits votes for Hollande,” Sarkozy told the TF1 TV station, before adding, “And I have never heard Hollande say it bothers him". Not so, replied Hollande. “That is completely false,” said the Socialist frontrunner in an interview with the France Info radio station. “Tariq Ramadan, who does not even vote in France, has never mentioned my name.” FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Trailing in opinion polls, Sarkozy lashes out at the left An activist, scholar, author and eloquent public speaker, Ramadan has at times been called a “reformist” and “bridge-builder”, and at others “a dangerous, slippery” radical. The 49-year-old scholar is no stranger to controversy, and this time, he was not mincing his words. In a phone interview with FRANCE 24 Thursday, Ramadan denounced Sarkozy’s latest allegation, calling it “a mean and unacceptable lie”. “The presidential candidate has been caught flagrantly lying,” he said. “I only said that if I was a French citizen...I would take a look at Sarkozy’s track record over the past five years, and I would be very dissatisfied about it. The outgoing president is trying to poach supporters from the National Front. He’s beginning to smell defeat and so he’s pushing it even further.” Ramadan’s comment came as Sarkozy, who has been lagging in the polls, is desperately trying to woo the 18 percent of the French electorate who voted for the far-right National Front candidate Marine Le Pen in the April 22 first round of the presidential poll. The French president’s pandering to the far-right vote has also earned him a barb or two from Le Pen herself, who noted in an interview with a French radio station Thursday that, according to Sarkozy, “we were xenophobes, anti-Semites, racists…and now suddenly, there is no more of that." Sarkozy refuses to back down Despite the denials by both Hollande and Ramadan, Sarkozy has not backed down on his allegation that the Swiss-born Islamic scholar supports the French Socialist candidate. “When someone says we must defeat one candidate, it’s the same as supporting the other candidate, no?” quipped Sarkozy in a TV interview Thursday night. In another interview earlier Thursday, the embattled French president insisted Ramadan had called on French Muslims to vote for Hollande "or a party that serves Islam" at a March 11 public meeting in the southern French city of Lyon. But in his interview with FRANCE 24, Ramadan categorically denied the allegation. "I remember that meeting well. I never made any such comment, because I never address the community vote," he said. “When I attack Nicolas Sarkozy, I’m taking on the government, the establishment. As for the Socialist Party, I also regret that it has abandoned its ideals. I hold both the mainstream French political parties responsible for the rise of the National Front.” Round one of Sarkozy vs. Ramadan In a campaign dominated by domestic issues, the discourse surrounding a non-French citizen may seem surprising. But Ramadan is a particularly contentious figure in France. The grandson of Hassan al Banna, the founder of the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood, Ramadan was born in Switzerland after his father fled there following the Brotherhood's ban in 1954. The Swiss-educated academic, who is also a professor of contemporary Islam at Oxford University, became a well-known figure in US academic circles after the Bush administration refused to grant him a US visa in 2004. Ramadan was forced to resign his faculty appointment at the Chicago-based University of Notre Dame. Some of Ramadan’s most notorious encounters have been in France, making him a household name as derided in some parts as he is respected in others. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day Earlier this month, the Swiss scholar made headlines in France when invited to address an annual convention of Muslim organisations on the outskirts of Paris. French Interior Minister Claude Guéant publicly expressed his disapproval over the invitation, saying he “regretted” the fact that a person with such “ambiguous” views was on the speakers’ list. But the event’s organisers, the Union of Muslim Organisations of France (UOIF), went ahead with Ramadan’s scheduled address regardless. Ramadan’s run-ins with Sarkozy date back to a nasty exchange on French television in 2003, when the current president was France's interior minister. Sarkozy accused Ramadan of supporting the stoning of adulterers, and the Islamic scholar replied that he favoured “a moratorium” on such practices, refusing to condemn it outright. Sarkozy, like many French commentators, expressed outrage over Ramadan’s response. For his part, Ramadan has maintained that he has never supported the stoning of women. “I have always opposed [stoning] by calling for a moratorium to stop this practice. My position is consistent with Amnesty International, which goes through a moratorium to prohibit certain practices, such as the death penalty,” he said. Over the past five years, Ramadan has criticised of a number of Sarkozy’s policies regarding French Muslims, such as the banning of the burqa, a national identity debate that was widely criticized as being anti-Muslim and a controversy during the current campaign on halal food that was widely perceived as both anti-Muslim and anti-immigrant. At the UOIF convention earlier this month, Ramadan did not specifically refer to the French president, but his message was clearly directed at him. “Instead of talking about halal meat, the burqa, national identity and dividing France, you should unite it,” he told a packed hall at the conference. Almost a decade later, as Sarkozy prepares to face an electorate, Ramadan is dismissive about the incumbent candidate. “I have no lessons to learn from Nicolas Sarkozy, who sang the praises of a 'moderate and progressive' Islam practiced in Saudi Arabia, when he visited the country in 2008,” he said. But he insists his criticism does not constitute support for Hollande, a claim Sarkozy finds difficult to swallow.
####2012 April 28####Thomas Houdaille, Secretary General, EuropaNova####Thomas Houdaille, Secretary General of think tank EuropaNova, analyses the results of the first round of the French presidential election last Sunday. He gives his take on the many lessons from this first round, notably the rise of the far-right National Front.
####2012 April 28####Gaddafi 'agreed to fund Sarkozy campaign', media say####A French investigative website reported Saturday that deposed Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi had agreed "in principle" to donate €50 million to French President Nicolas Sarkozy’s 2007 campaign. Sarkozy has denied allegations of Gaddafi funding.AFP - Moamer Kadhafi's regime agreed to fund French President Nicolas Sarkozy's 2007 election campaign to the tune of 50 million euros, a news website reported Saturday, publishing what it said was documentary evidence. The 2006 document in Arabic, which website Mediapart said was signed by Kadhafi's foreign intelligence chief Mussa Kussa, referred to an "agreement in principle to support the campaign for the candidate for the presidential elections, Nicolas Sarkozy, for a sum equivalent to 50 million euros." The left-wing investigative website made similar assertions on March 12, based on testimony by a former doctor of a French arms dealer alleged to have arranged the campaign donation, which Sarkozy slammed as "grotesque." It was not stated that any Libyan money was actually handed over. The latest report comes as Sarkozy trails Socialist rival Francois Hollande in opinion polls ahead of the run-off second round of presidential elections on May 6. His campaign spokeswoman Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet Saturday dismissed the latest report as "ridiculous" and a "clumsy diversion" orchestrated by Hollande's camp. In an email to AFP she said Sarkozy's 2007 campaign funds had been cleared by the Constitutional Council after the elections with no queries. But Hollande spokesman Bernard Cazeneuve called on Sarkozy to "explain himself to the French in the face of such serious elements backed up by new documents emanating from the entourage of the Libyan dictator himself." Mediapart said it had obtained the note from "former senior officials now in hiding." The green-bordered note published and translated by Mediapart said the agreement followed a meeting on October 6, 2006, attended by Kadhafi's spy chief Abdullah Senussi, the head of Tripoli's African investment fund Bashir Saleh, close Sarkozy associate Brice Hortefeux and arms dealer Ziad Takieddine. A lawyer for Takieddine, Samia Maktouf, denied to AFP that her client was present but said, "he believes this document is credible, given the date and the persons named." Hortefeux, who later served as Sarkozy's interior minister, told Mediapart he had never met Mussa Kussa or Bashir Saleh. The latest report by Mediapart, a respected source seen as opposed to Sarkozy's right-wing government, strengthens long-running allegations that French political camps have benefited financially from kickbacks on arms deals with foreign regimes. Kadhafi's son Seif al-Islam last year claimed that Libya financed Sarkozy's campaign, after Paris abandoned its improving ties with Libya and threw its weight behind the rebellion that eventually deposed and killed the dictator. "Sarkozy must first give back the money he took from Libya to finance his electoral campaign. We funded it and we have all the details and are ready to reveal everything," Seif told the Euronews network. When asked about Seif's comments during a March 12 interview on France's TF1 television, Sarkozy replied: "I am sorry to see you in the role of a spokeswoman for Kadhafi's son, frankly I've known you in better roles." "It's grotesque and I am sorry that I am being interrogated about declarations of Kadhafi or his son on an important channel like TF1," Sarkozy said. "When one quotes Mr. Kadhafi, who is dead, his son, who has blood on his hands, that is a regime of dictators, assassins, whose credibility is zero... frankly, I think we have sunk low enough in the political debate." Takieddine is already under investigation for his alleged role in the funding of Edouard Balladur's failed 1995 presidential campaign for which Sarkozy was spokesman. Investigators suspect Balladur's camp collected kickbacks on a deal to sell submarines to Pakistan and that a Karachi bombing that killed 11 French engineers was carried out by Pakistani agents in revenge after promised bribes went unpaid. Sarkozy has always denied any wrongdoing in the 1995 campaign finance arrangements. Kosciusko-Morizet claimed Saturday that Hollande's camp had orchestrated the latest disclosures to distract attention from the resurfacing of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the disgraced former International Monetary Fund head. Strauss-Kahn earlier blamed his highly public fall from grace following his sexual encounter with a New York hotel chambermaid on Sarkozy to prevent him from standing as the Socialist candidate in the current presidential election.
####2012 April 28####Obama-style canvassing with France's Socialists####FRANCE 24 joined a group of Socialist Party canvassers this week on the streets of Nimes in southern France, the only region where far-right candidate Marine Le Pen came out on top in the presidential election's first round.Across France teams of Socialist activists are knocking on doors and talking to voters, in a door-to-door campaign inspired by US President Barack Obama’s successful 2008 campaign. FRANCE 24 joined a small team of Socialist Party (PS) canvassers working the suburbs of Nimes in southern France as the country gears up for the second round of the presidential election on May 6. Locally, there is much at stake for the PS. Nimes is the main city in the Gard – the only administrative region in France where far-right candidate Marine Le Pen came top in the first round of the presidential vote. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day Incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy will face off against PS candidate Francois Hollande in the second round, and although polls give Hollande a ten-point lead, much still depends on how Le Pen’s supporters choose to vote. The PS activists are leaving nothing to chance. Beaming optimism and big smiles Their approach and strategy is surprisingly American in a country where door-to-door canvassing is virtually unknown. For the first time in a presidential campaign, the socialist-party has organised a large-scale effort to draw in left-wing sympathisers who might have otherwise abstained, drawing inspiration from the Obama canvassing method. Activists are furnished with lists of households in overwhelmingly left-voting neighbourhoods that have abstained from voting in previous elections (not the names) and these form the core of the highly coordinated strategy to target undecided voters. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy compared to Vichy leader for courting far right Each canvasser has been given sales-type training and approaches the work with beaming optimism and big smiles. They follow strict guidelines on how many minutes to spend talking with each person, how to focus on listening rather than lecturing, and to provide as much information as they can as efficiently as possible. “People who don’t agree with us get two minutes and those who do get five,” said Laurent Thomas, a council gardener who organises all canvassing in Nimes and has been out on the streets every night for the past four weeks. “We are always polite and we never argue with people. If they don’t want to talk to us we simply move on. “Our mission is to educate as many people as possible about Francois Hollande. We are not here to convert people. Above all we want people to go out and vote on May 6.” Le Pen’s coy voters Out on the streets, householders seemed surprised at the presence of these red-jacketed Hollande supporters. Activist Kevin Boucard, 31, said the method “that we studied from the Obama campaign” was working, and that the team had been able to cover most of the city in the run-up to the vote. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 'I’m Arab, a Muslim, and I vote Marine Le Pen' FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Hollande calls limiting economic immigration 'essential' FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Sarkozy compared to Vichy leader for courting far right “People aren’t used to this direct approach in France,” he said. “Many of our new activists are a little scared to approach people directly, but they soon get over their shyness.” In a region that saw 25% of voters cast their ballot for Marine Le Pen’s National Front in the April 22 first round of the election, her supporters are surprisingly coy. Peering round her front gate, one mother of two children leaning out of the house windows told FRANCE 24: “I voted for Le Pen in the first round. I’m abstaining in the second. I won’t vote for either Hollande or Sarkozy.” She refused to be named or be photographed. Canvassing finishes at 8.30pm sharp because “people are having dinner and we mustn’t disturb them” and the team gets together for to debrief on the evening’s work. “It’s an important part of the day’s work, we learn from each other and it makes us feel good about what we’ve done,” says Thomas. They disperse after copious kisses on cheeks – they do it three times in the south. No high-fives in Nimes. DOOR-TO-DOOR CAMPAIGNING IN NIMES Laurent Thomas (right) organises all door-to-door canvassing in Nimes. He is joined by his father Claude (left) who has been a PS supporter since 1974. Canvassers work their patch in pairs. Friends Laurence Choimet (left) and Leila Bekkaoui (right) feel they work best together. This is social worker Kevin Boucard’s first election as a PS activist. “Hollande may be ahead in the polls, but the game is not done by any stretch,” he said. “Nicolas Sarkozy is extremely combative and I think the result will be much closer than anyone thinks.” Mohammed Snabi looks after disadvantaged youngsters. Canvassing is “all about convincing people to vote and not to be indifferent - too many people feel that the elections do not concern them and will change nothing.” Kheira Ghezali, of French Algerian origin, said that “most people who voted for [far-right leader] Marine Le Pen aren’t racists, they’re simply fed up with Sarkozy.” A resident in this affluent suburb seems surprised to see the red-coated activists. She will vote for Hollande, she says. Leila Bekkaoui talks with a Hollande sympathiser who wasn’t planning on voting because he thought the result was a foregone conclusion. This resident refuses to say how she will vote, but seems to enjoy the attention. Not everyone is at home, although canvassing takes place between 7.30 pm and 8.30 pm on weekdays to maximise the chance of direct contact. Time to move on after a discussion with this couple exceeds the allotted five minutes. At every door where there is no response, the canvassers leave their calling card with one simple message: “Vote.”  
####2012 April 29####Voters say ‘non’ to Sarkozy in Le Pen heartland####Far-right candidate Marine Le Pen came top in the first round of the presidential election in the Gard region of France, but will her supporters now back right wing President Nicolas Sarkozy? FRANCE 24 met her local supporters to find out.The town of Besseges in the Gard region of southern French is a National Front stronghold and a microcosm of France’s political evolution. The depressed former mining town of 3,000 inhabitants lies in the hilly north of the Gard administrative region, where extreme-right leader Marine Le Pen won 25.5% of the vote in the first round of the French presidential election, sending shockwaves across France. Nationwide, Le Pen came third in the first round of the presidential election on April 22, with the National Front getting 18% of the vote. It was a record-breaking score for the far right party, beating the 16% that Le Pen’s father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, won to get through to the second round of the 2002 presidential election. In Besseges, the blonde, 43-year-old National Front leader did even better than the Gard average in the April 22 round, winning 26.56% of the vote. Socialist François Hollande won the first round in this town with 29% of the vote while incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy came third with just 19%. In the run-up to the May 6 final round, all eyes are on whether Le Pen’s supporters will choose Sarkozy, or Hollande. With Hollande holding an average 10-point lead in the opinion polls, Sarkozy is desperately trying to woo Le Pen’s supporters by focusing on traditionally National Front issues such as immigration, national identity and tightening border controls. But in Besseges, most far-right activists and ordinary voters expressed disappointment with Sarkozy’s track record and maintained that the French president had failed them and the country. Speaking to FRANCE 24, an overwhelming majority of Besseges residents said they would not support a president “who had broken all his promises”. Sarkozy will 'not get my vote' Benjamin Tallon is a young National Front activist and a member of the Besseges town council. Benjamin Tallon The 26-year-old engineer accused Sarkozy of being a hypocrite by taking up National Front issues in his “desperate bid” to secure the far-right vote. “Sarkozy has always been after our voters,” he stated. “He promises to reduce immigration in 2007 and he’s doing it all over again. Locally, when there are election battles between the National Front and the Socialists, the UMP always tells people to vote Socialist. “I am a natural conservative, and I would normally support the conservative candidate in the second round. “But Sarkozy has shown the country that he is a hypocrite. He will not get my vote.” The former Socialist Baptiste Gazancon, 37, turned to the FN after his construction company collapsed last year. Baptiste Gazancon He told FRANCE 24 that he believed the work ethic in France had been undermined by a social benefits culture that allowed people to earn without working while penalising those “that get out of bed every morning and go to work”. “I’ve voted Socialist in every single election until now,” he said. “I still believe in the social model; that there should be a safety net for people who lose their jobs. “But it should only be for people who deserve it. You can’t simply move to this country and start claiming benefits at the expense of people who work hard. “Marine Le Pen has promised to put a stop to this and that’s why I am voting for her. Francois Hollande has not addressed this issue. In fact he has avoided it and even said that benefits should be extended. It breaks my heart.” The father of two said that some of his co-workers of North African descent also voted National Front and claimed this was proof that the party had shaken off its racist stigma. “I recognise the value of immigration,” he argued. “But we should only allow people in who are prepared to work. “As for the second round, it is my civic duty to vote. So I will go to the polling station, but I will put a blank card in the envelope. I can’t support either Sarkozy or Hollande.” The doctor Jean-Francois Grillo, 61, is a radiologist who has supported the National Front all his adult life. Jean-Francois Grillo Like many other far-right party supporters, he sees Sarkozy’s UMP and Hollande’s Socialist Party (PS) as two sides of the same coin, and refers to both parties as the “UMPS”. “Sarkozy’s attempts to get the National Front vote are so obvious and so shallow they are pitiful,” he declared. “I will cast a blank ballot in the second round of the election because both the Socialists and France’s mainstream conservatives have progressively destroyed this country over the last 30 years. “But I predict a victory for Francois Hollande. What this means is that France will edge closer to the economic situation we see in Greece and in Spain. “This will be devastating for our country, but it will mean that the National Front will become the only sensible voice of conservative opposition in France.” The former Legionnaire Sebastien Bosquet is a tough-looking and gruff-talking former French Foreign Legionnaire, the unit that was the alma mater of National Front founder Jean-Marie Le Pen. Sebastien Bosquet His opinions are direct: “We love our country the way the English love their queen, and Marine Le Pen is the one person that unites people who genuinely love France and want it to succeed.” A public transport worker from Montpellier, Bosquet was in Besseges to visit friends, who are also National Front supporters. Bosquet said he would not vote in the May 6 second round. “I refuse to lend my support to candidates who insult us, and especially not Sarkozy,” he stated. “They want our votes but as citizens, as people with opinions, they couldn’t care less about us. “Both candidates and both parties are the same and whatever the outcome of the election, nothing will change. France will continue on its downward spiral.” The old campaigner Yves Gailhac, 62, has been an ardent supporter of the FN all his life. Yves Gailhac Of all the voters FRANCE 24 met in Besseges, Gailhac was the most blunt. “I’ve never been a racist and I have never been a fascist,” he argued. “That is not what the National Front is about and it never has been. “Some National Front people are going to vote for Sarkozy because he is the conservative candidate and because he has been talking up issues like immigration. “They’ve got it all wrong. He’s a hypocrite. Five years of Sarkozy have been terrible for France. “I predict Hollande will win, and things will continue to be just as terrible. “France will end up like Greece and within two years there will be a revolution. The National Front will come through as the only party with the real answers.”      
####2012 April 29####Sarkozy and Hollande square off at rival rallies####French presidential candidates Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande kicked off a final week of campaigning on Sunday by accusing each other of petty tactics during rallies in the north and the south of the country.REUTERS - French President Nicolas Sarkozy called for tougher borders and a stronger national identity on Sunday and accused the left of petty slander as he battled to catch up with his Socialist rival a week before a presidential runoff. Sarkozy, who lags his centre-left challenger Francois Hollande by 10 points in opinion polls for the May 6 vote, hammered home a message aimed at the nearly one-in-five far-right voters whose support he needs to win a second term. In a speech in the southern city of Toulouse, which was shaken in March when an Islamic gunman went on a shooting rampage, the conservative Sarkozy used the word “border” dozens of times as he stressed that love of one’s country should not be confused with “dangerous nationalist ideology”. “Without borders there is no nation, there is no Republic, there is no civilisation. Borders are what mark your territory from others’ territory,” Sarkozy told some 10,000 supporters. “There are differences between us and others,” he continued. “We are not superior to others but we are different.” Hollande took the moral high ground when he addressed some 22,000 Socialist voters at a simultaneous rally in Paris, saying he would not stoop to using such vote-garnering tactics. “I want victory, but not at any price, not at the price of caricature and lies,” he said. “I want to win over the men and women who are angry, a hundred times yes, but compromise myself? A thousand times no.” The surprise score of National Front leader Marine Le Pen, who swept 17.9 percent of last Sunday’s presidential first round to rank third behind Hollande and Sarkozy, has turned the runoff into a fight for her voters, many of whom say they will abstain. Despite criticism from members of his own political camp for a lurch to the right over the past week, Sarkozy seemed to focus solely on those voters as he criticised Europe for being unquestioningly dedicated to free trade. “In 2007, the issue was work. In 2012, the issue is borders and I will put them at the centre of the debate,” he said. As the duel between the hot-blooded Sarkozy and the mild-mannered Hollande heated up, the president scorned a report by investigative website Mediapart saying deposed Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi sought to fund his 2007 election campaign. He also dismissed as nonsense accusations from former IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the Socialists’ presidential favourite before he was felled by a May 2011 sex scandal, that his downfall was orchestrated by his political foes. The Socialists distanced themselves from the Strauss-Kahn accusations, published in British daily The Guardian on Friday. Stink bombs With two-thirds of French telling pollsters they have a negative view of him, Sarkozy is the most unpopular incumbent to seek a second term and the only one to lose a first-round vote after Hollande beat him by just over one percentage point. Privately, some ministers and pro-government lawmakers say Sarkozy would do better to stress reviving economic growth and employment, investment and training, themes on which Hollande has dominated the debate. Prime Minister Francois Fillon said the combination of the Mediapart report and Strauss-Kahn’s claim of a plot against him suggested the Socialists were uncertain of victory next weekend. “As if by chance, it’s the moment when all the stink bombs are being thrown about in a scandalous fashion,” he added. Sarkozy said he was shocked by Mediapart’s report that it had dug up a document from Libya’s former secret services indicating Gaddafi’s government decided to finance Sarkozy’s 2007 campaign. “Who led the coalition to topple Gaddafi? It was France!,” Sarkozy told Canal+ television. “Do you think that if Gaddafi had anything on me I would have tried to oust him?” he added. “It’s a disgrace. It’s a fabrication,” Sarkozy said, accusing the website of working in the service of the left. He said the report seemed to be aimed at distracting attention from the reappearance of Strauss-Kahn, whose comments he scorned as “vulgar”. The former finance minister “should have the decency to keep quiet”, Sarkozy said. Strauss-Kahn said that political opponents had torpedoed his presidential bid by making sure his now infamous sexual encounter with a hotel maid was made public. Socialists embarrassed The article clearly embarrassed the Socialists. Hollande told Canal+ Strauss-Kahn was not part of his presidential campaign, and Segolene Royal, Hollande’s former partner and the Socialists’ losing candidate in the 2007 election, said Strauss-Kahn was “unwanted”. Sarkozy has consistently tried to focus voters’ attention on his rival’s lack of government experience and policies he says will be a disaster for an economy struggling to reduce debt. Yet despite frustration from outside France with a campaign that has featured more bickering over domestic concerns than big-picture ideas on Europe’s economic future, Sunday’s rallies suggested the last days of the race will bring more of the same. Sarkozy needs about 80 percent of Le Pen voters behind him to win, but surveys show only 44-60 percent plan to back him. Weighing in to back Sarkozy, Fillon said Mediapart’s purported document was “false” or “impossible to verify” and said it was ridiculous to talk of 50 million euros when the campaign cost 20 million and had publicly available accounts. Mediapart, staffed by a number of veteran French newspaper and news agency journalists, printed a copy of a 2006 document in Arabic, apparently signed by Gaddafi’s former intelligence chief Moussa Koussa, which stated his government would pay 50 million euros for Sarkozy's campaign. It called for an inquiry.  
####2012 April 29####Sarkozy rejects Strauss-Kahn's claims of politics behind sex scandal####French President Nicolas Sarkozy on Saturday rejected claims by Dominique Strauss-Kahn that Sarkozy allies were behind the sex assault scandal that derailed the former IMF chief's bid for the Socialist presidential nomination.AFP - President Nicolas Sarkozy on Saturday rejected Dominique Strauss-Kahn's claims that he was the cause of the sex scandal that thwarted the ex-IMF chief's bid for the French presidency. "Enough is enough! I would tell Mr. Strauss-Kahn to explain himself to the law and spare the French his remarks," he said while on the election campaign trail in central France. The comment came after Strauss-Kahn told Britain's Guardian newspaper that his highly public fall from grace was orchestrated by his opponents to prevent him from standing as the Socialist candidate in the French election that culminates next week. The ex-International Monetary Fund boss had been favoured to win the vote until May last year, when he was arrested in New York and accused of sexually assaulting a hotel maid. The charges were later dropped. Strauss-Kahn said that although he did not believe the incident was a setup, the subsequent escalation of the event into a criminal investigation and highly publicised sex scandal was "shaped by those with a political agenda." DSK and the Carlton Affair CARLTON HOTEL SCANDAL Who’s who in the Carlton Hotel prostitutes scandal The Guardian said it was clear he was referring to people working for Sarkozy and his UMP party. Strauss-Kahn refused to discuss with the left-wing daily a separate sex scandal that has erupted in France. Sarkozy said that when he thought of all the "scandalous, shameful episodes" that Strauss-Kahn had allegedly been involved in in the United States and France, he was shocked that the ex-IMF chief should dare to speak out now. "Mr. Strauss-Kahn starts giving lessons in morality and saying I am the only one responsible for what happened to him, well, that really is too much!", he said. Sarkozy's Socialist rival Francois Hollande is tipped to win the second round of France's vote next Sunday.  
####2012 April 29####Separate scandals tarnish rivals Hollande and Sarkozy####French incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy took to the stage in Toulouse on Sunday as challenger François Hollande greeted thousands at a rival rally in Paris, but both candidates are facing embarrassing scandals just a week ahead of the presidential runoff.AFP - The French presidential race entered the home straight Sunday with both incumbent right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist frontrunner Francois Hollande battling to shake off the taint of scandal. Sarkozy accused Hollande supporters in the media of mounting a "despicable" smear against him by publishing a document purporting to show Moamer Khadafi's former Libyan regime agreeing to fund his previous presidential campaign in 2007. Meanwhile, the Socialists were embarrassed when several senior figures in Hollande's campaign attended an ally's birthday celebration and found that disgraced former IMF chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn had also been invited. Both events revived interest in these long-running scandals just one week before France goes back to the polls and just days before Hollande and Sarkozy were to face off in a televised debate which could prove decisive. The latest opinion poll published on Sunday by the LH2 institute for web portal Yahoo! forecast that Hollande would comfortably win the May 6 run-off by 54 per cent of the vote to Sarkozy's 46, with the gap narrowing. But polling has yet to take into account the effects, if any, of the latest controversies, neither of which appear fatal to either campaign, but which may reinforce the voters' broader disdain for the political class. On Saturday, investigative news website Mediapart published what it said was a copy of an internal Libyan regime document recording an alleged 2006 illegal funding deal between Tripoli and Sarkozy's 2007 campaign. According to the note, which Mediapart claims to have obtained from former regime figures ousted last year in the revolt against Khadafi's rule, Tripoli agreed to pay Sarkozy's 2007 campaign 50 million euros ($66 million). "It's despicable. It's a forgery. Mediapart is well used to dishonesty. It's an agency in the service of the left," Sarkozy declared in an interview with Canal+ television, angrily dismissing the claim. And the man to whom the memo was supposedly addressed - Bashir Saleh, Khadafi's former chief of staff and head of Libya's 40 billion dollar sovereign wealth fund - denied ever receiving such a communication. Saleh is now living in exile in France, and his lawyer Pierre Haik sent AFP a statement expressing "grave reservations" over the authenticity of the note. If any such transaction or even planned deal were ever proved, Sarkozy and his campaign staff could face criminal prosecution, but his allies came out strongly, dismissing the alleged evidence and attacking the report. There are long-standing rumours that Sarkozy's victorious 2007 campaign benefited from illegal foreign funds, and Mediapart has been at the forefront of reporting on his camp's alleged links to shady middlemen. Mediapart is a subscription website founded by a group of left-leaning journalists led by a former managing editor of the respected daily Le Monde and supported by a group of sympathetic wealthy investors. Sarkozy's prime minister, Francois Fillon, also attacked former Socialist favourite Strauss-Kahn, accusing him of intervening in the campaign to make false allegations against Sarkozy. Strauss-Kahn reportedly alleged in an interview with a US reporter that his arrest last year in New York on sex assault charges had been manipulated by Sarkozy's camp for political gain. The charge surfaced this weekend as reporter Edward Epstein publicised an upcoming book by releasing extracts to the British daily The Guardian, but Strauss-Kahn insisted he had not spoken to the paper. And the Strauss-Kahn case appears to have done more damage to the left, following an embarrassing farce late Saturday at a Paris bar on the Rue St Denis, an address historically synonymous with prostitution. Leading Socialist figure Julien Dray invited Hollande's campaign director Pierre Moscovici, communications director Manuel Valls and former partner Segolene Royal to a drinks party in the bar to celebrate his birthday. But he apparently failed to tell them he had also invited Strauss-Kahn, who is now a political pariah and under judicial investigation for his alleged ties to a prostitution network that supplied escorts for orgies. Royal - who was the defeated Socialist candidate in 2007 and had four children with Hollande before they split in the same year - said she had left as soon as she heard Strauss-Kahn was coming, without seeing him. Royal called Dray's behaviour "unacceptable" and Hollande said Strauss-Kahn was "no longer a political figure" and had no role in his campaign, refusing to comment on the guest list at the party. Sarkozy has dedicatd the closing stages of his campaign to wooing voters who backed the far-right's Marine Le Pen in the April 22 first round, and has lost no opportunity to remind the left of its ties to Strauss-Kahn.
####2012 April 30####DSK's return puts France's Socialists on defensive####A provocative interview and an awkward public appearance by Dominique Strauss-Kahn this weekend have left François Hollande's Socialists red-faced just days before the crucial presidential runoff vote with Nicolas Sarkozy.With just six days before the second-round vote in the French presidential election, and polls showing a slightly tightening race, it is not exactly the eleventh-hour development Socialist frontrunner François Hollande was hoping for. Scandal-plagued Dominique Strauss-Kahn has made an unwelcome entry into the campaign, topping weekend headlines with an awkward appearance at a high-profile private party in Paris, and making provocative comments about the attempted rape charges he faced in New York in a newspaper interview. Now the Socialists are scrambling to distance themselves from the man who was once considered their biggest hope for evicting Nicolas Sarkozy from office, but is now seen as their biggest pariah. Eager to avoid any last-minute damage to a presidential bid that has all the indications of success in the May 6 runoff, Hollande declared on TV Sunday that Strauss-Kahn “no longer has a role in political life”. An embarrassing party guest Some of Hollande’s most visible surrogates found themselves fighting to free themselves and their candidate of any association with Strauss-Kahn on Sunday, after the shamed politician stopped by a Paris birthday party for prominent Socialist Julien Dray. Hollande’s campaign chair Pierre Moscovici, his communications director Manuel Valls, and his former partner and 2007 presidential contender Ségolène Royal all publicly declared they immediately left the party once they learned that Strauss-Kahn was on his way. But they were nevertheless forced to justify any possible continued affiliation with Strauss-Kahn. Valls stated that Strauss-Kahn was no longer linked in any way with the Hollande campaign, and “has no reason to come back into it”. Royal, meanwhile, told journalists that it was “out of the question” to see Strauss-Kahn face-to-face, “in the name of women’s rights and respect for women”. On top of being haunted by two sexual assault cases, the former International Monetary Fund chief is currently under investigation in France for involvement in a prostitution ring based in the northern city of Lille. DSK speaks, Sarkozy strikes Sarkozy pounced on Monday, accusing Socialist leaders of downplaying what he implied to be their continued ties to the man once widely admired as the brains and the future of their party. “Just months ago, the whole Socialist Party was hoping for a candidate named Dominique Strauss-Kahn,” he said in a TV interview. “There’s no shame in being friends and defending your friends…but you need to own up to it. What’s troubling in all of this is the deception, the hypocrisy, and the lying.” Strauss-Kahn’s first step back into front-page news came on Friday, when British daily The Guardian published an interview with the former IMF chief in which he alleges that the New York attempted rape case was “shaped by those with a political agenda”. In other words, by Sarkozy insiders who viewed Strauss-Kahn as a threat. In the interview, Strauss-Kahn tells US journalist Edward Jay Epstein that his sexual encounter with Sofitel hotel maid Nafissatou Diallo was not a setup, but the ensuing charges and media frenzy were orchestrated by French political enemies. “I simply did not believe that they would go that far,” Strauss-Kahn says in the interview. On Sunday, Strauss-Kahn’s representatives told the press he had not given an interview to The Guardian, and that the interview published in the paper was pieced together from Epstein’s upcoming book on the DSK saga. But The Guardian is standing by its story, and the flap gave Sarkozy an opportunity to take a rhetorical swipe not only at the former Socialist big-wig, but by proxy at the party at large. The president addressed Strauss-Kahn at a Saturday rally in Clermont-Ferrand: “Explain yourself to judicial authorities, and spare the French people your comments,” he said to cheers. With a much-anticipated televised debate scheduled for Wednesday night, Hollande is expected to face further attempts from Sarkozy to tie Socialists to a man who could tarnish the party’s image before next weekend’s vote. A survey by French polling agency Ipsos released Monday showed Hollande at 53 percent and Sarkozy at 47 percent of intentions to vote, with the Socialist and the sitting president having lost and gained a point, respectively.
####2012 April 30####Who owns Labour Day?####Nicolas Sarkozy is set to pit himself against France's powerful unions with rival demonstrations on May Day - a move calculated to stir the ire of the left.Liberation is furious at Sarkozy's plan to host a counter-rally aimed directly at the annual unions' march - and point out that many on the right see this as an unnecessary provocation. Le Figaro puts someone who's meant to be far away from this presidential race on the front page - Dominique Strauss Kahn - as frallegations of a stitch-up mean he makes the news again, much to the socialists' discomfort.
####2012 April 30####Skeletons in the closet####This was the weekend the subjects the candidates thought they had got rid of made a comeback in the French election campaign - Dominique Strauss-Kahn, and the financing of Sarkozy's 2007 campaign.
####2012 April 30####Rival May Day rallies reflect national divisions####This year's May Day labour celebration in France is like no other as trade unions, supporters of incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy and the country’s far right simultaneously hit the streets of Paris five days before the final presidential vote.Falling five days before France picks its next president, this year’s International Workers’ Day, also known as May Day, stands as a high-stakes campaign event for rivaling political camps. Trade unions traditionally allied with the political left, supporters of incumbent president Nicolas Sarkozy, and the surging far-right National Front (FN) party, are holding competing rallies in Paris on the traditional May 1 labour movement celebration. The parading red flags of the leading CGT union usually dominate May Day in France, but the imminent May 6 presidential runoff between Sarkozy and Socialist Party challenger François Hollande has made for an altogether different national holiday this year. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call Fifteen years after being kicked out of the Elysée presidential palace, the Socialists are hoping the march will add momentum to Hollande’s campaign and help sweep them back into power. Trailing in opinion polls, and with a meagre two weeks between the first and second round of the presidential elections, Sarkozy is hoping to upstage his opponents by gathering voters in a historic counter-celebration of what he calls "real work". Finally, buoyed up by a record-high 18 percent score in the first round of the elections, the FN is gathering members for its annual march from Paris’ Opera to the foot of the equestrian statue of Saint Joan of Arc at the Place des Pyramides. The French media have highlighted the battle for May Day as a symbol of the growing divisions. “Choose your camp,” sarcastically quipped Nicolas Demorand, director of the left-leaning Libération daily in an editorial on Monday. “The Berlin Wall has been rebuilt in the middle of Paris, just like in the good old days of the Cold War.” Tradition meets election The May Day march organised by France’s unions is the event expected to assemble the most participants on Tuesday. Driven by over a century of tradition and irked by what they saw as Sarkozy’s attempt to usurp their celebration, union workers and French left-wingers will march from Denfert-Rochereau in central Paris to the capital’s iconic Place de la Bastille. "May 1 is about history, May 1 is about a desire for social change, May 1 is about international solidarity,” said Danielle Tartakowsky, professor of contemporary history at Paris University VIII, on France 3 television on Monday. Unions call for May Day show of force To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. Tartakowsky added that while the holiday was observed across the world, May 1 was revered like a religious feast by some in France’s powerful CGT union. Also the country's largest union, the CGT also honours nine factory workers killed in northern France in 1891 and the date French workers won the right to paid vacations on May 1, 1936. However, this year’s May Day is hard to dissociate from the election. After three consecutive defeats to the right in presidential elections in 1997, 2002 and 2007, the French left is tipped to stage a comeback. Hollande announced he would be traveling to the central city of Nevers to pay tribute to Pierre Beregovoy, a former Socialist prime minister, who committed suicide on May 1, 1993. He explained he would not be in Paris because May Day belonged “to workers and unions” and that he wanted it “to be respected”. The 'real work' controversy Hollande’s “respectful” absence was not just a wink to the left-leaning unions, but a calculated slight at incumbent Sarkozy, who has been slammed by critics for calling for an alternative demonstration. The day after the first round of the elections, Sarkozy announced on BFM television that he was calling for a rally to celebrate “real work”. The statement was made as a jibe to what he said were people who preferred to collect unemployment benefits and state handouts rather than hard-earned wages.  The backlash was large enough that the incumbent was forced to retract his comment. Nevertheless, he is pushing ahead with a rally near the Eiffel tower, which will seek to steal at least some of the media spotlight from the traditional unionist march. “I was not aware that the CGT and Mr. Hollande had privatised May 1,” Sarkozy joked several times on the campaign trail. Sarkozy has sought to discredit Hollande and the Socialists on economic policy, saying their programme would ruin France and bring about a Greek-style debt crisis. He has called on France’s “silent majority” to rise and hand him another five-year mandate. By choosing to defy the May Day ritual, Sarkozy was not only taking aim at left-wingers, but also far-right voters he needs to pull off an upset in Sunday's election. Until now, the FN has been the only modern political party in France to hold its own parallel May Day event. Waiting on Le Pen Starting in 1988, far-right figurehead and FN founder Jean-Marie Le Pen called on “patriots” to assemble in Paris on May 1 to honour Joan of Arc, the French Catholic saint and martyr who died at the hands of the English. At the time, the event was a direct affront to the union holiday and part of Le Pen’s consistent efforts to resist then Socialist president François Mitterand. His daughter Marine Le Pen, who has taken over as the FN’s leader and presidential candidate, has honoured the Joan of Arc rally as a family tradition with a few important adjustments. In the late 1980s, Jean-Marie Le Pen hoped to forge an agreement with the right to push Mitterand out of power. But the FN’s priorities have since shifted, and an alliance with Sarkozy would today be unthinkable. Still brimming with excitement at her best-ever election score in the April 22 first round poll, Marine Le Pen is looking at France as wide open political territory. Telling supporters to “vote with their conscience” on Tuesday, she added that her own vote would be a blank one.
####2012 May 01####'Tweet you're sorry 466 times!'####MEDIAWATCH FRANCE, Tues. 1/5/2012: Two French politicians have sued a Twitter user for insulting them online. The punishment? Tweeting he's sorry 466 times - the number of hits the offending tweet got. Is this the online equivalent of giving naughty Twitter users lines? Also, the crowd numbers at Sarkozy's rallies are questioned by internet users, and Facebook introduces an organ donation feature.
####2012 May 01####A very political Labour Day####It's May Day in France - and the president is coming under heavy fire for setting up a counter-rally to the traditional union march.Le Monde says this will be a May Day like no other - caught between political rallies and scandals. They criticise the president for trying to make political capital out of the day - while the Nouvel Observateur criticises the unions for moving away from their traditional neutrality. Marine Le Pen is also holding a rally - in an attempt, says the Huffington Post, to stop her voters backing Sarkozy and to shore up support for June's parliamentary elections.
####2012 May 01####Are France's unions ever really neutral?####Both Nicolas Sarkozy and union leaders are being criticised for undermining the supposedly strict political neutrality of May Day - but isn't it always highly political anyway?
####2012 May 01####Marine Le Pen to cast ‘blank vote’ in French runoff####Far-right leader Marine Le Pen blasted presidential candidates François Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy on Tuesday, refusing to endorse either one in the May 6 runoff. While many supporters promised to do the same, others said they remained undecided.Five days before French voters pick their new president, the far-right candidate Marine Le Pen announced she would cast a blank ballot in the second round poll of the election. Faced with a choice between conservative incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist Party challenger François Hollande, the National Front (FN) leader said the two candidates were the same. Le Pen came in third in the first round of the elections on April 22, getting 17.9% of votes. Recovering a part of her electorate in the May 6 runoff is important for the two remaining candidates, but especially for President Nicolas Sarkozy, who opinion polls say will likely fail to secure a second mandate this spring.  Le Pen denounces Sarkozy and Hollande To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. Speaking to a crowd of around four thousand followers outside Paris’ Opera Garnier on Tuesday, Le Pen said each person should vote with his or her own conscience, but that neither Sarkozy nor Hollande could count on her endorsement. "I shall grant neither my trust, nor a mandate to those two candidates. On Sunday I will vote blank, and in June navy blue,” Le Pen said in reference to upcoming parliamentary elections in which she hopes to lead a coalition of FN members and sympathisers on the far right. "On May 6, it is not a president who will be elected, but merely another employee of the European Central Bank, a subordinate of the financial system in Brussels,” Le Pen mockingly declared in an hour-long speech in which she bashed France’s two main political parties and extolled her score in the first round. Celebrating Joan of Arc The FN organises a May 1 march every year in honour of Saint Joan of Arc, the 15th century Catholic saint and martyr who fought against the English army. Before gathering outside the Paris Opera, the FN’s founder and long-time figurehead, Jean-Marie Le Pen, led a festive march in central Paris and momentarily stopped to lay a wreath at the foot of the statue of the French medieval heroine. Nevertheless, the current presidential election eclipsed the traditional protocol, and participants were eager to find out what the far right candidate would say about the second round vote. Le Pen’s “blank vote” declaration was greeted with enthusiasm by the crowd, with many loudly repeating that they would do the same thing next Sunday. The National Front gathering was one of three competing May 1 rallies in the French capital on Tuesday. Union workers and left-wingers joined the traditional Labour Day march that would culminate in the iconic Bastille square, while Sarkozy supporters took part in a counter-Labour Day gathering near the Eiffel tower. Supporters hesitate over runoff Romain, a 19-year-old student from northern Aisne department, said he had “kept” a ballot with Marine Le Pen’s name from the first round and would place it in a voting box on May 6. “There is no fundamental difference between Sarkozy and Hollande. They have the same economic program,” declared the teen, who was concealing a Londsdale jacket that is popular among some European neo-Nazis. “I used to vote on the Left but now find that 90% of my ideas correspond to those of Marine Le Pen,” said Michel, a retired maths teacher who also said he would cast a blank vote. “Only Marine Le Pen can bring about real change.”  A 53-year-old man who asked to be identified as Mr. Gore, and was one of the very few black people at Le Pen’s rally, said he had planned to vote for Hollande as a way to sanction Sarkozy, but had changed his mind after the speech. “My dream is to see [Sarkozy’s] UMP party lose and disintegrate before the legislative elections. But if Marine says to vote blank, I will vote blank,” he said. However, other FN sympathisers said they were still hesitating to decide who they would vote for on May 6. Many said they were leaning toward Nicolas Sarkozy. “I voted for Sarkozy in the second round of 2007. I still don’t know if I will vote for him again or cast a blank vote,” said Francoise, a 65-year-old retired civil servant from the Paris suburbs. Jean-Louis, a small business owner from Lille who came to the FN rally with his 16-year-old son, said he would not hesitate to pick Sarkozy in the runoff. “It’s not quite true to say [Hollande and Sarkozy] are exactly the same. I think Sarkozy would have pushed his reform agenda further if he had not been sidelined by the financial crisis,” the 56-year-old said. IN PICTURES: Marine Le Pen rallies her supporters before the French run-off Marine Le Pen and her father Jean-Marie Le Pen pose after laying a wreath at the Joan of Arc statue in central Paris - a symbol of French sovereignty claimed by their far-right National Front party. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Hundreds of supporters from the far-right party's youth section loudly celebrated Marine Le Pen's surprising good score in the first round of the French presidential election. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Marine Le Pen has striven to give the National Front party a more mainstream reputation, calling on the party’s security personnel to make extremists and skinheads less “visible” during the May 1st march. Several Front National supporters called for the ouster of President Nicolas Sarkozy despite the incumbent’s repeated efforts to address immigration and security issues. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Michel, a 52 year-old mathematics teacher, used to be a supporter of left-wing parties before switching to Marine Le Pen's National Front - the only party in favour of "real change" in his eyes. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Several Front National supporters said they would use old Marine Le Pen ballot paper to cast a vote in favour of the National Front leader in the May 6 run-off. Others said they'd put a "Joan of Arc" paper in the ballot box. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. There were a large number of youths among the 4,000 people who marched from the Palais Royal square, in front of the Louvre, to the Opera Garnier. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. The National Front's "honorary president", Jean-Marie Le Pen, addressed the party's supporters with a speech detailing Joan of Arc's history. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Marine Le Pen said incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist challenger François Hollande were both "part of the same system" and refused to endorse either of them. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Marine Le Pen also urged her supporters to back the National Front party in the forthcoming legislative election. Photo: Mehdi Chebil.
####2012 May 01####Marine Le Pen to cast 'blank vote' in May 6 runoff####Marine Le Pen, leader of France's far-right National Front party, said in a May Day rally that she would not vote for either incumbent president Nicolas Sarkozy or Socialist challenger François Hollande in Sunday's presidential runoff.REUTERS - French far-right leader Marine Le Pen delivered a further blow on Tuesday to President Nicolas Sarkozy’s hopes of re-election by refusing to endorse him and telling her six million supporters to make their own choice at Sunday’s ballot. Sarkozy, who faces off against Socialist Francois Hollande on May 6, needs many of the 17.9 percent of voters who chose National Front leader Le Pen last week to switch to backing him in the runoff if he is to overcome first-round winner Hollande. But Le Pen, who came third on April 22 with a score that eclipsed her father’s record at the head of the populist protest movement, told a rally in Paris on Tuesday that she personally would spoil her ballot paper in the second round by choosing to vote for neither of the two remaining contenders. “I will not grant my trust, or a mandate, to these two candidates,” she told supporters at an annual commemoration of Joan of Arc, the national saint her group favours to the May Day celebrations held by international labour and leftist parties. “On Sunday, I will cast a blank ballot.” Le Pen did not further twist the knife for the conservative incumbent by urging her 6.4 million voters to do likewise. But in leaving them to make their own minds up she left it unclear how many will stay at home or even vote for Hollande, who is running a six- to 10-percentage point lead in opinion polls. “I have made my choice,” she said. “Each of you will make yours.” Analysts had calculated that Sarkozy might need as many as 80 percent of Le Pen’s first-round voters if he were to win. But polls indicate only about half of them intend to. With a parliamentary election to come in June, National Front leaders believe they can break through and win seats in the legislature, especially if a heavy defeat for Sarkozy plunges his centre-right UMP party into deeper disarray. May Day disputes Being punished for economic gloom, rife unemployment and a widespread dislike of his presidential manner, Sarkozy is the most unpopular sitting president to run for re-election and the first in the 54 years of the current electoral system to lose a first-round vote to a challenger. Hollande, a mild-mannered centre-leftist running on a tax-and-spend platform, would be the first left-wing president in 17 years to lead the euro zone’s second biggest economy. As Sarkozy prepared to address supporters at another rally in the capital, Hollande made his own campaign speech in central France, where he visited the tomb of Socialist former prime minister Pierre Beregovoy, who shot himself on May 1, 1993. He slammed Sarkozy for trying to distract from labour day marches where senior Socialists will be guests of honour. “May 1 is a celebration of the unions. I can’t accept that in France on May 1 there is a battle against unionism,” he said. Sarkozy said earlier that the left had no exclusive rights over May Day. “I didn’t realise that May Day was reserved for the union struggle,” he told RMC radio. “It’s to celebrate work, a founding value of our society.” Countdown Le Pen’s surprise score in the first round has thrown the last days of the election race into disarray with Sarkozy striving to court her voters without alienating the centrists he also needs. “I need the centrist voters and those who abstained just as much as I need those who voted for Marine Le Pen in the first round,” Sarkozy said. However, he appeared to rule out considering centrist Francois Bayrou as a potential prime minister, suggesting there was no deal in the works with him for his support in the runoff. Bayrou scored just 9.1 percent in the first round, coming fifth, but Sarkozy needs as many of those supporters as possible to back him on Sunday. Polls show that Bayrou’s backers are split evenly between Sarkozy and Hollande, with roughly a third planning to vote for each and the rest undecided or abstaining. Sarkozy said, however, that picking a prime minister from a minority party was not possible, his comment coming after criticism from Bayrou over his attempts to woo both the far-right and the centre. In a fiery speech to thousands of supporters waving French flags, Le Pen slammed Sarkozy’s rhetoric on the need to strengthen borders and maintain a clear national identity as pure theatrics and labelled him and Hollande as lackeys of the European Central Bank, IMF and European Commission. “The French have started their emancipation,” she said, scorning the mainstream parties, the UMP and PS, or Socialists, as an indistinguishable “UMPS” bloc. “The UMPS will not succeed,” she said. “All of their efforts cannot stop us growing and cannot block our path to power.” Mockery of the two remaining candidates was a common theme among Le Pen’s supporters: “Sarkozy and Hollande, they are exactly the same,” said an 18-year-old who gave her name as Justine. “If there is a difference between the two it’s their height.”  
####2012 May 01####Sarkozy accuses unions of failing workers in mass rally####In a May Day address to an estimated 200,000 people in the shadow of the Eiffel Tower on Tuesday, presidential incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy called on French unions to "serve France", and accused them of failing workers.AFP - Nicolas Sarkozy staged a huge election rally on Tuesday to rival France's traditional May Day show of force by the left, as Marine Le Pen scornfully rejected his bid to woo her far-right supporters. Five days before Sarkozy was to face Socialist frontrunner Francois Hollande in the second-round run-off of the French presidential election, he addressed a cheering crowd in Paris in front of the Eiffel Tower at Trocadero. His campaign claimed 200,000 had turned out in bright spring sunshine to hear him attempt to don the nationalist mantle of General Charles de Gaulle and, while this figure was impossible to verify, the crowd was packed tight. Sarkozy to unions: 'Do not betray your mission' To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. At the same moment, the French left and trade union movements, which are backing Hollande, were marching through Left Bank Paris towards another huge rally at the revolutionary venue of the Place de la Bastille. "I say this to the unions. Put down the red flag and serve France!" the right-wing incumbent declared, as supporters waved France's tricolour banner. Having spent the week since the first-round vote attempting to recruit far-right sympathisers from Le Pen's anti-immigrant, anti-EU camp, Sarkozy rounded on the left, accusing the unions of failing ordinary workers. He tried to silence critics of his bid to hijack what is traditionally a labour festival by recalling that De Gaulle had often addressed France on May Day, and urged France to turn its back on Socialism. "We have decided to gather under the Tricolour. I will never accept being lectured to by those who brandish the red flag, symbol of so many tyrannies," he said, while four kilometres (just over two miles) away the unions marched. Le Pen denounces Sarkozy and Hollande To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. Promising a "new French model" based on hard work and entrepreneurship, he vowed to abolish collective bargaining and build an economy where "success will no longer be regarded with suspicion but as an example". The crowd chanted "We're going to win! We're going to win!", but if Sarkozy does pull it off it will be despite stagnant growth, high unemployment and his having trailed Hollande in opinion polls for more than six months. The latest polls forecast that Hollande will win by around 54 percent to Sarkozy's 46, and his campaign is coasting towards Wednesday's televised debate and Sunday's election showdown with quiet confidence. Campaigning outside Paris, Hollande said he would seek to be a successor to France's last Socialist president Francois Mitterrand and accused Sarkozy of trying to divide France with his attacks on trade unions. "When there are four million unemployed, when joblessness has increased by more than a million, who defends the value of work and who is ruining it?" he asked, hailing unions and promising growth and a higher minimum wage. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call Sarkozy's best hope of turning around the polls would be to recruit most of Le Pen's voters from the first round, when she won a record 18 percent on a ticket of protectionism, leaving the European Union and closing the borders. But Le Pen, hopeful that a Sarkozy loss would shatter the right and help the National Front make gains in June's legislative elections, scorned his overture in the third big rally of the day in Paris. "Who between Francois Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy will impose the austerity plan in the most servile way? Who will submit the best to the instructions of the IMF, the ECB or the European Commission?" she asked ironically. "On May 6 it's not a president who is to be elected, but a simple employee of the European Central Bank, a Brussels sub-controller of finance, charged with applying the Commission's decisions without question," she said. "And, forgive me, with regular reports to Angela Merkel's Germany," she added, as the crowd booed. Le Pen reminded her supporters that they are free to vote as they choose on Sunday, but said that she would cast a blank ballot so as not to endorse either candidate and strongly suggested that they should do the same. THE SARKOZY RALLY IN PICTURES Supporters of Nicolas Sarkozy gathered at the Place du Trocadéro in west Paris on Labour Day to hear the incumbent president’s notions of work. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Tens of thousands of people waved their French flags when Sarkozy told the crowds that he preferred the colours of the Tricolore from the red flags traditionally carried by unionists on Labour Day. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Not everybody managed to crowd into the Trocadéro square where Sarkozy was speaking. Giant screens were placed nearby for those who couldn’t get any closer. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Many pensioners came to celebrate what Sarkozy described a “real” workers’ party. A former textiles worker (centre) who gave his name as Guillaume told FRANCE 24 that he felt there was too much state assistance in France. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Prime Minister François Fillon, who had been rumoured to have distanced himself from Sarkozy’s campaign after a squabble over the party moving further towards the far right, also spoke at the rally. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. The crowds waved their flags and cheered when Sarkozy emerged on the stage. The flags were handed out to supporters before the speech. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. The crowds listened attentively until Sarkozy paused following the mention of social assistance or challenger François Hollande, when they willingly booed. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Sarkozy fans of all ages filled the square. Many supporters also brought their children to the rally. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. This 32-year-old logistics supervisor who gave his name as Belgacem is concerned that a Socialist win on Sunday will only worsen France’s financial woes. Photo: Mehdi Chebil. Many of those living in apartments overlooking the square came out onto their balconies to lend their support to Sarkozy. The district where the Trocadéro is located (the 16th arrondissement) is one of the wealthiest in Paris. Photo: Mehdi Chebil.
####2012 May 01####Thanasis Priftis, Online campaign manager of PASOK (Greek Socialist Party)####The battle for the French presidency is finally coming to an end on May 6th. Meanwhile, in Greece, voters will elect their new Parliament the same day. Could this week be a turning point in politics? How far can citizens take back power through web campaigns and social media? Marjorie Paillon speaks to Thanasis Priftis, a Greek political and digital expert currently observing François Hollande's online campaign here in France.Produced by Anthony Saint-Léger, Juliette Lacharnay
####2012 May 02####'Attacked' journalist accuses Sarkozy of inciting hatred####A French journalist has accused President Nicolas Sarkozy of inciting hatred against the media after she was allegedly assaulted at a political rally organised by the ruling UMP party.A French journalist has made an official police complaint after allegedly being assaulted on Tuesday by Sarkozy’s UMP party supporters. Marine Turchi, a 29-year-old political reporter for the online news site Mediapart, told Turchi that she had been cornered and surrounded by a “baying mob” chanting “dirty leftist” during a Sarkozy campaign rally in Paris. “A man grabbed the press badge that was around my neck and held it up shouting that I was a Mediapart journalist,” Turchi said on Wednesday. “People all around started chanting ‘here they are’ and ‘dirty leftist’". “No one came to help, I was genuinely afraid of being violently attacked.” Turchi told FRANCE24 that it was the “umpteenth time” she had been insulted by UMP activists, often older activists in their 50s and 60s. She believes UMP party leaders should be held responsible for inciting anger against journalists and against the media in general. She had made the official complaint because she was “utterly fed up” with the “constant harassment”. “It’s been happening since March,” she said. “Systematically, at the beginning of their speeches, Sarkozy and his senior party members begin by attacking the press. It rubs off on the supporters who feel that it is entirely legitimate to insult us. “When you work up a crowd of 70,000 to booing and whistling their disgust at the media, you have to take responsibility for their actions.” Anger at all of the media Left-leaning information site Mediapart has been the subject of particular ire from the UMP since it published a story on April 29 alleging that Sarkozy received 50 million euros in illegal campaign funding in 2007 from Libya – accusations that the UMP has strenuously denied. But Mediapart is certainly not the only media organization that says it has come under fire from the UMP and its supporters. “Apart from [right-wing pro-government daily] le Figaro, the anger of the activists is directed at the media in general,” said Turchi. At one UMP meeting at Saint Cyr on August 22, FRANCE 24 reporter Lise Barcellini said the incumbent president denounced the media at length. “The tone got worse, people starting whistling at the media and chanting that the journalists had ‘sold out’,” she said. According to Barcellini, militants at a UMP rally in Toulouse on April 29 blocked her from entering the venue and insulted her and other journalists once they were inside. UMP supporters, she said, “were on the verge of outright fury” – without even inquiring whom she was reporting for. And when asked to respond to questions about poll results and the possibility of a Sarkozy defeat “they became aggressive and accused the whole media of skewing reality.” FRANCE 24 contacted the UMP press office for a reaction on Wednesday but had received no response when this article was published.  
####2012 May 02####French Presidential Race: Can Sarkozy beat Hollande?####Mind the gap in the French presidential race which is tightening. Not enough, argues Socialist Olivier Ferrand for whom Nicolas Sarkozy has tacked too far right to win. The UMP’s Arnaud Danjean – in a dig at François Hollande – answers you can be pro-Europe and still address the fears of ordinary citizens.Arnaud DANJEAN. French legislative elections candidate, UMP. Member of the European Parliament; Olivier FERRAND. French legislative elections candidate, Socialist Party. President and founder, Terra Nova; Marc PERELMAN. France 24 French Politics Editor; Markus KARLSSON. France 24 / MCD / RFI Business Editor; Douglas HERBERT. France 24 International Affairs Editor. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Christopher Davis. Watch the second part here.
####2012 May 02####Face-off####François Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy are gearing up for their sole face-to-face confrontation in this election campaign - they debate head-to-head for the one and only time tonight before the final vote on Sunday.Le Parisien headlines on the candidates' strategies - and Hollande's team admit he's a little bit nervous, even if Sarkozy's insist their man is zen. Libération looks at some of the strict rules the debate must follow - meaning we're unlikely to see any big surprises. Les Echos has a look back at some of the two men's previous encounters.
####2012 May 02####Sarkozy and Hollande face off in first, and last, TV debate####French President Nicolas Sarkozy faced off against his Socialist rival, François Hollande, in the only primetime debate of the 2012 presidential race on Wednesday night, just days ahead of Sunday’s vote.Click here for FRANCE 24’s “live blog” on the 2012 French presidential debate. In what was widely dubbed “The Final Confrontation,” incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy challenged his Socialist rival François Hollande’s portrayal of his five-year presidential term in the only televised debate of the 2012 campaign. With just four days to go before Sunday’s final round of the presidential poll, the stakes were high Wednesday night as Hollande kicked off the debate with a ferocious attack on what he called Sarkozy’s track record of dividing the French people, adding that if he were elected, the Socialist politician would be a “president for justice”. In a quick rebuttal - the sort that characterised the contentious tone of the debate - Sarkozy shot back : “Bringing people together – what a beautiful idea. But it’s not just words, it’s facts that matter,” before noting that during his tenure as president, Sarkozy managed to implement controversial policies such as pension reforms without massive street protests. THE FRANCE 24 DEBATE: RIVALS FACE OFF To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. The much-anticipated debate kicked off at 9pm local time at a TV studio north of Paris with the two candidates facing each other across a table mounted with two digital clocks to monitor the speaking time of each candidate. Moderated by leading French TV presenters, David Pujadas of France 2 and Laurence Ferrari of TF1, Wednesday’s debate is being broadcast live by several French TV stations. Hollande’s strategy centered on criticising the French president’s economic policies during a period that saw France lose its AAA credit rating and the number of jobless people reach four million. But Sarkozy took a critical position from the start, maintaining he was being unfairly blamed for France's economic problems after years of crisis, and insisted he's not "the only guilty one.'' Sarkozy aims to chip at Hollande’s poll lead Known to be a formidable debater, Sarkozy had pushed for more debates against Hollande, a challenge the Socialist candidate turned down, making Wednesday’s debate not just the final, but also the high point of a campaign that many critics have described as being lacklustre. Sarkozy came to the debate Wednesday night as the underdog, with a mission to chip away at the seven-point lead Hollande holds in opinion polls. The French president has been waging an aggressive bid to destabilize his Socialist rival who won the April 22 first round with 28.6% of the vote while the incumbent came second with 27.8%. But opinion polls have consistently shown Hollande with a comfortable lead in the May 6 second round. Maintaining temperatures of the studio and the discourse But contrary to Hollande’s demurrals, the preparations for Wednesday’s debate had the sort of dramatic build-up normally reserved for a heavyweight boxing championship. The format of the debate was hammered out after extensive negotiations with media advisors for both candidates. In the TV gallery controlling 20 cameras, each candidate has his own director to guarantee fair coverage. The coverage rules for the evening include no profile shots of the candidates and no reaction shots of one candidate while the other is speaking. The room temperature has been set between 19 to 20C with each camp granted access to control the temperature. But it can be argued that the candidates have less control of the temperature of the discourse in a debate that has been likened to a duel – and a final one at that. French presidential debate Live Blog <a href="http://www.coveritlive.com/mobile.php/option=com_mobile/task=viewaltcast/altcast_code=edaf4ed2a9" >EN_PRESIDENTIAL_DEBATE</a>
####2012 May 02####Hollande and Sarkozy - the final round####We take a look at the two candidates' strategies for tonight's live TV debate - is Hollande nervous? What will Sarkozy's line of attack be? And which camera angles have their PR people banned?
####2012 May 02####French TV debate: Sarkozy's last chance?####Incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy will face Socialist challenger François Hollande in a live televised debate on Wednesday. The war of words could be Sarkozy's last chance to turn the tables on his popular rival before Sunday's election.Click here for FRANCE 24’s “live blog” on the 2012 French presidential debate. Current French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist challenger François Hollande will go head-to-head in a live debate on national television Wednesday evening. Sarkozy is generally considered to be the stronger debater, and with just four days to go before the country goes to the polls, the TV battle looks to be his last real chance to make a dent in Hollande’s lead in the opinion polls. The debate, which traditionally takes place on the Wednesday before the final round of the country's presidential election, is seen as the climax of the campaign. Taking its format from similar political debates in the US, the face-off between the leading candidates has been a fixture of French presidential elections since 1974, with the exception of 2002, when Jacques Chirac refused to go head-to-head with far-right candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen. But even if Sarkozy is able to come out stronger during the debate, history is not on his side: past presidential debates have rarely influenced the outcome of elections. Sarkozy wants to 'destroy' Hollande The debate has been keenly anticipated by the 20 million French citizens expected to tune in at 9 pm on Wednesday. Sarkozy is in a combative mood. He has said he will go into the debate "without any coaching", a jab at Hollande, whose agenda for the preceding 24 hours has been wiped clean in order for him to prepare. Known for being pointedly aggressive in live debates, Sarkozy has reportedly told his aides that he is counting on "destroying" his opponent. Hollande, meanwhile, has a reputation for evading difficult questions. Wednesday’s debate should give him the opportunity to "get his hands dirty", according to Stephane Rozès, head of the Paris-based political think tank CAP. For his part, Hollande told French television last week he "hoped that the debate will be dignified". Sarkozy, a ruthless debater "Even though Hollande is ahead in the polls, he is going to have to be dynamic," said Rozès. "It is a much more dangerous situation for him than it is for Sarkozy." According to the latest Ipsos Logica poll, Hollande will come out the winner in Sunday's election, with 53 percent of the vote. Sarkozy is banking on reversing Hollande's lead over the course of the two-and-a-half-hour debate. "We've seen Sarkozy swing hard to the right after the first round," Rozes said, referring to the president's efforts to win over the 18 percent of the French electorate that cast ballots for far-right candidate Marine Le Pen on April 22. "But Sarkozy may again change his tactics at the last moment. "He is a ruthless debater, and we can’t exclude the possibility that he will come out with some surprises, that he will stop being divisive and that he will do everything he can to highlight Hollande’s shortcomings." And even if the majority of past debates have had little impact on voting patterns, Sarkozy may take heart from the precedent set by former president Valéry Giscard d’Estaing in 1974, when the right-wing candidate famously silenced Socialist rival François Mitterrand by saying, "you do not have a monopoly on compassion." This famous quote is often thought to have been the clincher in the 1974 election. A level playing field Meanwhile, a huge effort has gone into preparing the television studios for the debate. From the air conditioning level to the size of the table and the amount and position of the lighting, nothing has been left to chance. Thierry Thullier of France 2, one of the channels hosting the debate, told FRANCE 24 on Tuesday that the preparation with partner broadcaster TF1 began nearly a month ago, with the choice of studio and the appointment of the head lighting technician and the director of the broadcast. "We haven’t had any particular requests from either candidate," said Thullier. "But we are sticking to a rigid set of rules for the production." Everything possible has been done to level the playing field as much as possible. The camera must be fixed on the candidate who is speaking, with no shots allowed of the other’s reactions. By a random draw, Hollande will be given the opening speech, while Sarkozy will close the debate. "Both candidates will get a strictly equal amount of time, and neither of them can be seen to be given preferential treatment," Thullier said.
####2012 May 03####The knives were out####The French papers analyse last night's big presidential debate - the attacks, the insults, the points scored, and whether either candidate has won over any new voters.Les Echos reckons the debate was a score draw, with good punches landed on both sides - but they're shocked Sarkozy and Hollande had such harsh words for each other. Le Parisien thinks Hollande edged it - with calmer and more confident body language - while Libération is also convinced their man triumphed - but admit he may not have won over many more voters.
####2012 May 03####Centrist Bayrou to vote Hollande in presidential poll####François Bayrou (right) of the centrist Democratic Movement said Thursday he will vote for Socialist front-runner François Hollande (left) in Sunday's second round but stopped short of an endorsement, telling supporters to vote their "conscience".REUTERS - Nicolas Sarkozy's fragile hopes of re-election took a heavy blow on Thursday when a leading centrist backed Socialist frontrunner Francois Hollande, a day after the French president failed to land a knockout blow on his rival in a televised debate. Opinion polls after Wednesday's nearly three-hour duel, watched by over a third of the 46 million-strong electorate, showed Sarkozy narrowing Hollande's lead slightly before Sunday's runoff for the presidency, but failing to discredit his rival in the eyes of most voters. THE FRANCE 24 DEBATE: RIVALS FACE OFF To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. Sarkozy's prospects suffered another setback when centrist Francois Bayrou, who came fifth in last month's first round with 9 percent of the vote, announced he would vote for Hollande, criticising the president's tough language on immigration and Europe. "The line that Nicolas Sarkozy chose between the two rounds is violent, it contradicts our values, not just mine, not those of the movement I represent," Bayrou told a news conference. Seeking to save his political skin, Sarkozy has appealed to the nearly one-fifth of voters who backed far-right candidate Marine Le Pen in round one, warning them against following the National Front leader who said she would cast a blank vote. He also implored voters not to elect what would be the first left-wing French president in 17 years. "The Left has ruined the Republic with its softness on sectarianism, on crime, on legal immigration," Sarkozy said at a rally in the southern city of Toulon. "We have one day left to convince people, one day for the sweetest victory in history." To stay in office, Sarkozy needs to accomplish a near-impossible balancing act of winning over about 80 percent of Le Pen's voters while attracting the lion's share of Bayrou's more moderate, socially-liberal supporters. So far, he has tried to woo backers of Bayrou's Democratic Movement with promises to write a balanced budget rule into the constitution, something Hollande has refused to support. An OpinionWay-Fiducial survey conducted before and after the TV debate showed Sarkozy narrowing the gap to five points, with 47.5 percent to the Socialist's 52.5 percent, the smallest gap so far. Other recent polls give a six to 10 point difference. A survey by LH2 found Hollande, who remained calm in the debate against a visibly tense Sarkozy, dispelled some voters' doubts about his lack of experience, with 45 percent rating him as more convincing versus 41 percent for Sarkozy. "Sarkozy was the favourite for the debate and he failed to win: Hollande took it on points," said Christian Delporte, a political and media analyst. "Hollande had a real challenge - to show that he was presidential material - and he managed it." Sparring over Europe French media mostly agreed that Hollande, who used flashes of wit to unbalance his pugnacious rival, remains on track to become France's first Socialist president since Francois Mitterrand left office in 1995. "Hollande still favourite after the debate," Le Monde wrote on its front page. Even right-wing Le Figaro newspaper noted that, since every euro zone leader to seek re-election since 2008 had lost, Sarkozy faced an uphill battle. Hollande, 57, was confident and relaxed in the early exchanges of Wednesday's contest, promising to be "the president of unity" and accusing Sarkozy of dividing the French people. He accused Sarkozy, also 57, of using the global economic crisis as an excuse for failing to keep a 2007 promise to cut unemployment to 5 percent. "With you it's very simple: it's never your fault," Hollande said. THE FRANCE 24 INTERVIEW FRANCE 24/RFI EXCLUSIVE Hollande says Sarkozy has damaged France’s image Sarkozy, stressing the inexperience of a rival who has never been a minister, repeatedly accused his opponent of lying about economic figures and reeled off reams of statistics in an attempt to swamp his adversary. Deriding Hollande's pledge to be a "normal president", Sarkozy said: "Your normality is not up to the challenge." Markets, however, appeared unworried by the prospect of a win by Hollande, who vows to raise taxes on large companies and increase marginal tax rates for top earners to 75 percent. yield on 10-year French bonds held steady below 3 percent at an auction on Thursday, while the Paris CAC stock index was slightly lower, in line with most of Europe. Hollande has soothed investors' concerns in recent weeks by moderating his call for the renegotiation of a German-inspired European budget discipline treaty, which many had feared would derail efforts to deal with the euro zone crisis. He said he would balance the French budget by 2017, just a year later than Sarkozy. "Supposing Francois Hollande wins the election on Sunday, we do not expect a major policy shift with respect to the fiscal stance in France," JP Morgan economist Raphael Brun-Aguerre said. Europe was one of the main subjects of Wednesday's debate, as well as the sickly economy, high unemployment, nuclear power and immigration. "The example I want to follow is Germany and not Spain or Greece," Sarkozy said, declaring that he and German Chancellor Angela Merkel had saved Greece from an economic wipeout and avoided the collapse of the euro currency. "Europe has got over it," Sarkozy said of the crisis. Hollande, who says he wants to defend millions of Europeans at threat from government cutbacks, shot back: "Europe has not got over it. Europe is today facing a possible resurgence of the crisis with generalised austerity. That's what I don't want." Sarkozy, being punished in part for his brash manner, is the most unpopular president to run for re-election and the first in recent history to lose a first-round vote.  
####2012 May 03####French Presidential Race: Can Sarkozy beat Hollande? (part 2)####Mind the gap in the French presidential race which is tightening. Not enough, argues Socialist Olivier Ferrand for whom Nicolas Sarkozy has tacked too far right to win. The UMP’s Arnaud Danjean – in a dig at François Hollande – answers you can be pro-Europe and still address the fears of ordinary citizens.Arnaud DANJEAN. French legislative elections candidate, UMP. Member of the European Parliament; Olivier FERRAND. French legislative elections candidate, Socialist Party. President and founder, Terra Nova; Marc PERELMAN. France 24 French Politics Editor; Markus KARLSSON. France 24 / MCD / RFI Business Editor; Douglas HERBERT. France 24 International Affairs Editor. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Christopher Davis. Watch the first part here.  
####2012 May 03####Who won le débat? Fierce face-off between Sarkozy and Hollande####It was indeed a slugfest, but will the feistiest French candidates' debate in history change voters’ minds? François Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy still have to convince often-volatile undecided voters in the home stretch to Sunday’s presidential run-off.Angela DIFFLEY, Journalist, RFI; Aude BARON, Editor-in-Chief, Le Plus - Nouvel Observateur; Frédéric WINCKLER, President, J. Walter Thompson Paris; Nicholas DUNGAN, Senior Fellow, The Atlantic Council. Watch the second part Programme prepared and produced by Christopher Davies, Anelise Borges and Mary Colombel
####2012 May 03####Who won le débat? Fierce face-off between Sarkozy and Hollande (part 2)####It was indeed a slugfest, but will the feistiest French candidates' debate in history change voters’ minds? François Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy still have to convince often-volatile undecided voters in the home stretch to Sunday’s presidential run-off.Angela DIFFLEY, Journalist, RFI; Aude BARON, Editor-in-Chief, Le Plus - Nouvel Observateur; Frédéric WINCKLER, President, J. Walter Thompson Paris; Nicholas DUNGAN, Senior Fellow, The Atlantic Council. Watch the first part
####2012 May 03####Has the US betrayed Chen Guangcheng?####The international press pitches in on Sarkozy and Hollande's debate - surprised by just how much they laid into each other. We also look at the case of Chen Guangcheng - could the US government have done anything differently?The Guardian says this was the most bruising attack seen between French presidential candidates in 30 years - while The Independent says the winner will have his work cut out trying to mend the divisions the campaign has created in a polarised France. The Atlantic asks whether the US betrayed Chen Guangcheng - saying they may have had no other options.
####2012 May 03####Hollande vs Sarkozy: a feisty confrontation####There are now only three days to go before we know who the next president of France will be - either François Hollande, or Nicolas Sarkozy again. Last night the one and only debate between the two candidates took place. It lasted nearly three hours, and the two men pulled no punches. But will it make a difference on Sunday?On the set: Philip Turle, Journalist, RFI; Denis Demonpion, Senior writer, Le Nouvel Observateur Magazine.
####2012 May 03####Hollande says Sarkozy has damaged France’s image####In a wide-ranging interview with FRANCE 24 and RFI on Thursday, Socialist presidential front-runner François Hollande said he was pleased with his performance in Wednesday’s debate and criticised the divisiveness of the Sarkozy administration.A day after locking horns with incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy in a heated televised debate, Socialist candidate François Hollande told FRANCE 24 and RFI on Thursday he was satisfied with his performance. "I think the debate unfolded as I hoped it would," said Hollande, who admitted to having the jitters beforehand, particularly because there were "high expectations and a considerable number of viewers”. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. Sarkozy and Hollande trade barbs during their first and only televised presidential debate. A ferocious debater, Sarkozy had pushed for more than one face-off against the Socialist challenger to the French presidency, a challenge Hollande declined, making Wednesday’s debate the only one between the two candidates in 2012 French presidential race. The much-awaited verbal contest saw the two men trade barbs in the course of an almost three-hour long exchange on issues ranging from economic policies to immigration. By Thursday, French media had declared the debate a draw, denying Sarkozy, who has been lagging in the polls, a much-needed campaign boost. Speaking to FRANCE 24’s Roselyne Febvre and RFI’s Frédéric Rivière, Hollande elaborated on a theme he introduced at the start of Wednesday’s debate, maintaining that Sarkozy’s five-year presidential term had been marked by “a lot of divisions”. Hollande also spoke in detail about international affairs, although his foreign policy positions on issues such as the Iranian nuclear programme, Syria and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict were not radically different from current French foreign policy. Restoring French prestige internationally But he was especially critical of the image of France that he says Sarkozy has conveyed to the international community. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call "There were statements, postures, attitudes, choices that have hurt our country and sometimes caused trouble internationally,” he said referring to a controversial July 2007 speech by Sarkozy, called the “Dakar speech for Africa” which was meant to signal a change in France’s controversial relations with its former African colonies, but was widely criticised for being patronizing at best, condescending at worst. Hollande also stressed the need to restore “the prestige of French identity” and to "increase the attractiveness of our language and our culture." On the issue of Europe and the eurozone crisis, Hollande reiterated his opposition to the January EU agreement for new and tougher measures to enforce budget discipline in the euro zone. He also stressed his desire to rely on Europe’s "borrowing capacity” to revive the crisis-hit euro zone. Asked about his priorities for France, Hollande cited education and economy before going on to defend his proposal to add 60,000 new civil service jobs in the education sector - a plan that has been ridiculed by his rival who has maintained that France has a bloated civil service. Finally, Hollande said he expects "a grace period, like in every presidential election," but he added that the duration of this period would depend on the policy measures that will be put in place. 
####2012 May 03####LIVE BLOG: The French presidential debate####Follow FRANCE 24's live blog of Wednesday night's debate between incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist candidate François Hollande as the two men faced off in the only primetime debate of the 2012 presidential race.French presidential debate Live Blog <a href="http://www.coveritlive.com/mobile.php/option=com_mobile/task=viewaltcast/altcast_code=edaf4ed2a9" >EN_PRESIDENTIAL_DEBATE</a>
####2012 May 03####The debate: two politicians, zero journalists####MEDIAWATCH, Thurs. 3/5/2012: We take a look at the buzz around last night's presidential debate - how social media did the job of two journalists who were reduced to mere time-keepers. But also: "Moi, Président", the song, and Sarkozy's penchant for asking questions.
####2012 May 03####Media call Hollande-Sarkozy TV debate a draw####Following a combative debate that lasted almost three hours on prime-time French TV, Socialist front-runner François Hollande managed to hold President Nicolas Sarkozy to a draw, French media said Thursday, denying Sarkozy a much-needed comeback.Socialist presidential candidate François Hollande showed “he had what it takes to lead the country” in a bruising two hour and 45 minutes televised face-off with an “aggressive” incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday, according to the French media. Trailing Hollande in the polls by around six points, many saw Wednesday evening’s debate as Sarkozy’s crucial last opportunity to outflank his rival ahead of Sunday’s second round of the presidential election. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. Sarkozy and Hollande trade barbs during their first and only televised presidential debate. Sarkozy is known as a strong and combative debater – and had even challenged Hollande to three televised head-to-heads. But the majority of opinion in the French media on Thursday found that the Socialist candidate had stubbornly held his ground in the face of an aggressive incumbent on fighting form. Left-leaning press admits a draw France’s left wing newspaper of reference Le Monde praised Hollande for resisting attack after attack by Sarkozy, defending a barrage of facts and figures with repeated counter attacks that demonstrated “that he knew all the details and could maintain a presidential composure.” The Socialist candidate held his own as Sarkozy tried to “play the teacher to Hollande the pupil,” said the newspaper’s columnist Francoise Fressoz. “The result was a draw,” she said. “Hollande started off as favourite, and he finished as favourite. Mr Sarkozy was unable to destabilise him, which was evidently his strategy from the beginning of the debate.” Left-leaning Liberation said that the confrontation was the “toughest since 1988”, according to columnist Alain Duhamel, who presided over the 1974 and 1995 TV debates. “Sarkozy was very natural and very aggressive,” Dumahel wrote. “Hollande was firm and sharp. Both demonstrated a strong will to show that they had what it takes to lead the country.” ‘No political earthquake’ says regional press To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. "During my presidency, absolutely no halal meat will be tolerated in school cafeterias": François Hollande France’s influential and generally less politically biased regional newspapers found that the debate, for all its tough talk and the attempts by both candidates to outdo each other with detailed facts and figures, did not change the status quo. Ouest France, the country’s biggest regional title (with a circulation of 800,000, France’s second biggest newspaper) said the debate “would have the principal effect of anchoring the existing opinions of voters.” And L’Est Republicain’s columnist Remi Godeau wrote that “this crucial debate will not cause a political earthquake.” “It was a good fight that won’t do much to change the balance of power on Sunday,” said Le Republicain Lorrain. “But Francois Hollande, in his behaviour and in his attitude, was the more presidential of the two.” La Montagne agreed that if Hollande took away any advantage, it was that he had demonstrated a presidential image, while Brittany’s Le Telegramme said that “while on the form it was an even draw, in substance it was like watching a pair of deaf people arguing points and where no progress can be found.” FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call “Neither candidate sank under the pressure, while both stayed firmly within their own ideologies,” said the Journal de Haute Marne. Conservative daily Le Figaro was the only daily newspaper that still believed that Sarkozy had shown a clear lead and could still claim victory on Sunday. Criticising Hollande’s “old fashioned socialist language”, the newspaper’s senior columnist Paul-Henri du Limbert said the left was out of touch and that the French people could still choose Sarkozy on Sunday. “Sarkozy reminded his rival that the world has changed since the socialists were last in power,” he wrote, arguing that the French left’s biggest talent was “looking to the past” and criticised as outdated promises to lower the minimum age of retirement and increase taxes on the rich. Whatever the media’s verdict, Europe 1 radio on Thursday published a poll which showed its listeners were not so on the fence. Of some 40,000 voters at noon on Thursday, 54% thought Hollande had come out top, with 34% favouring Sarkozy and 10% seeing the debate as an even draw.
####2012 May 03####Sarkozy and Hollande trade barbs in heated TV debate####In the first and only televised debate ahead of Sunday’s vote, incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist rival François Hollande traded barbs as they faced off on a number of issues ranging from economic policies to immigration.It was billed as “The Final Confrontation” and that’s exactly what millions of TV viewers across France got Wednesday night as incumbent French President Nicolas Sarkozy squared off against his Socialist challenger, François Hollande, in an intensely contested face-off, the only debate of the 2012 campaign. With just four days to go before Sunday’s final round of the presidential poll, the stakes were high as Hollande kicked off the debate with a ferocious attack on what he called Sarkozy’s track record of dividing the French people, adding that if he were elected, the Socialist politician would be a “president for justice”. In a quick rebuttal - the sort that characterised the contentious tone of the debate - Sarkozy shot back: “Bringing people together – what a beautiful idea. But it’s not just words, it’s facts that matter,” before noting that during his tenure as president, Sarkozy managed to implement controversial policies such as pension reforms without massive street protests. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. Sarkozy and Hollande trade barbs during their first and only televised presidential debate. The much-anticipated debate kicked off at 9pm local time at a TV studio north of Paris with the two candidates facing each other across a table mounted with two digital clocks to monitor the speaking time of each candidate. Moderated by leading French TV presenters, David Pujadas of France 2 and Laurence Ferrari of TF1, Wednesday’s debate was broadcast live by several French TV stations, reaching roughly half of France's 44.5 million voters. In a wide-ranging debate that included economic policies, immigration issues as well as foreign policy initiatives, the two candidates repeatedly clashed as they reeled out statistics, frequently accused each other of citing incorrect figures, and were not above taking the occasional personal jabs at each other. Hollande’s strategy centered on criticising the French president’s economic policies during his five years in office, a period that saw France lose its AAA credit rating and the number of jobless people reach four million. But Sarkozy took a critical position from the start, maintaining he was being unfairly blamed for France's economic problems after years of crisis, and insisted he's not "the only guilty one.'' Unfazed by his conservative opponent’s defense, Hollande riposted, “Mr. Sarkozy, you would have a hard time passing for a victim. It's never your fault. You always have a scapegoat.'' Sarkozy goes on the offensive Known to be a formidable debater, Sarkozy had pushed for more debates against Hollande, a challenge the Socialist candidate turned down, making Wednesday’s debate not just the final, but also the high point of a campaign that many critics have described as being lacklustre. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. "During my presidency, absolutely no halal meat will be tolerated in school cafeterias": François Hollande Sarkozy came to the debate Wednesday night as the underdog, with a mission to chip away at the seven-point lead Hollande holds in opinion polls. Fighting for his political career, Sarkozy criticized Hollande's economic plans, arguing that the leftist politician’s promise to add 60,000 new civil service jobs in an already bloated administration would send France's debt sky high. For his part, Hollande criticised Sarkozy’s tax reforms as being too friendly to the rich, adding, “frankly, this is becoming unbearable”. Sarkozy countered by repeatedly noting that France is the only country in Europe that has kept the wealth tax before scoffing, “Saying that we offered gifts to the rich ... is slander. It's a lie.'' It was not the first time one of the men accused the other of lying, but this time, Hollande simply smiled. Body language and a surprisingly combative Hollande The body language of the two men in the course of the two-and-a-half hour debate spoke volumes, with Sarkozy taking a predatory position from the outset, frequently jabbing his fingers at his opponent. Hollande, in contrast, sat back and appeared less physically animated. But he was nevertheless verbally combative - surprisingly so, according to FRANCE 24’s political editor Marc Perelman. “It got very personal and what’s rather surprising is that François Hollande was feistier than people thought he would be,” said Perelman. “He didn’t allow Nicolas Sarkozy to finish his sentences, he attacked him, calling him a liar. François Hollande wanted to make sure he didn’t look defensive and that he can also throw punches at Nicolas Sarkozy.” Common ground on immigration and integration On the issue of the integration of France’s Muslim population, the two candidates appeared to share common ground, as Hollande maintained that if he were elected, he will “apply the law” banning the burqa across France. Sarkozy held firm on his tough stance on immigration, calling for a limit on the number of immigrants France takes in and maintaining that “borders are not a bad word''. The French president has been waging an aggressive bid to destabilize his Socialist rival who won the April 22 first round with 28.6% of the vote while the incumbent came second with 27.8%. But opinion polls have consistently shown Hollande with a comfortable lead in the May 6 second round. In the run-up to Sunday’s vote, both candidates have an eye on the 18% of the vote won by far-right candidate, Marine Le Pen. The leader of the National Front party has refused to endorse either of the two candidates contesting the May 6 runoff.
####2012 May 03####Sarkozy knocked out?####We take a look at the lines of attack, the insults and the body language used by France's sparring presidential candidates in last night's big debate - and try to pick a winner.
####2012 May 03####May Day: The people's platform####This special edition of the show is dedicated to the French presidential elections. We begin by speaking to voters about which issues will motivate their decision this Sunday. Next, we head beyond our borders, and explore what Socialist candidate François Hollande and incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy have in store for France's European future. Finally, we take a look at the two women who are in the running to be first lady.
####2012 May 04####Centrist Bayrou's tactical game in supporting Hollande####François Bayrou, leader of the centrist MoDem party, has announced that he will vote for Socialist candidate François Hollande in Sunday’s presidential election, a move that some argue has more to do with expediency than ideology.Centrist also-ran presidential candidate François Bayrou announced late on Thursday that he will be voting for socialist nominee François Hollande in the election's second round on Sunday. Some French columnists put this surprise about-face – for centrists traditionally throw their support rightward – down to political expediency rather than Bayrou's declared ideological objections to President Nicolas Sarkozy. They argue that Bayrou is hoping – and scheming – that a defeat on Sunday for Sarkozy will breathe new life into his own faltering political party and enable it to re-establish itself as a part of the French political landscape. Still, the MoDem leader’s positions on the economy and deficit reduction are much closer to those of the incumbent. “I do not support Hollande’s position economically,” Bayrou has said. “It is ill-suited to the country's situation, and even more so to the [economic] crisis, that will almost certainly last a long time.” Sarkozy’s swing to the right However, Bayrou argued that he has been given no choice but to back Hollande, due to the “violence” of Sarkozy’s efforts to attract voters from the far-right National Front, whose leader Marine Le Pen scored a record-breaking 18% in the first round on April 22. “Sarkozy has been too focused on wooing far-right voters," Bayrou said. “The line he has chosen is violent and in contradiction with our values, not just mine and the political movement I represent, but also those of [Charles de Gaulle] and the social, republican right.” Bayrou blasted Sarkozy’s “obsession with immigration” and his “fixation with ‘re-establishing’ strong borders – as if they had disappeared and with them the national soul.” And although his support falls short of an outright endorsement of the Socialist Party candidate, it will certainly help cement Hollande’s lead - currently between 5% and 6% – if enough of his supporters choose to follow suit. Rebuilding the MoDem? For some, Bayrou is playing a long game in the hope that a complete and outright rejection of Sarkozy’s government will revive his own party’s fortunes. The MoDem candidate got 18% of the vote in the first round of the 2007 presidential election, only to see that number halved to 9% in 2012. According to communist-backed daily "L’Humanité", Bayrou is hoping that a resounding defeat of Sarkozy could lead to the marginalisation of the president’s ruling UMP party and lead to a re-drawing of the French opposition following the “decapitation” of the UMP – a battleground that will be hotly contested by the far-right National Front. The view is shared by Nicolas Demorand, the managing editor of leftist daily "Libération",  who said that following the election, the French Right was “going to have to take a long hard look at itself” – adding that Bayrou had put himself in a position of strength by making the “honourable” choice to support Hollande. Left-leaning weekly "Nouvel Observateur", however, was more cynical, saying Bayrou was banking on Hollande’s economic policies failing in the face of the ongoing financial crisis. Such a failure would vindicate his economic strategy, making Bayrou and his party the only viable alternative for France’s fiscally conservative voters. “There is absolutely no question of Bayrou wanting to join in a socialist-led government,” wrote columnist Hervé Algalarrondo. “He is convinced that the crisis is far from over and that the Left will very quickly run into financial trouble. And when Hollande is forced to re-draw his economic policies, Bayrou views himself as being the only person able to provide the answers.”
####2012 May 04####Hollande and Sarkozy trade final barbs as campaigning draws to a close####Incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy and Socialist front-runner François Hollande staged rival rallies in the south of France on Thursday. Friday marks the last day of campaigning before Sunday’s second-round vote.AFP - Nicolas Sarkozy and Francois Hollande took the gloves off for the last major rallies of their ferocious battle for the French presidency, three days before their final run-off. The tone for the last days of campaigning was set by a fierce television debate on Wednesday, in which the right-wing incumbent Sarkozy and Socialist challenger Hollande traded insults without either landing a knock-out blow. Hollande remains the pollsters' favourite to win on Sunday, but Sarkozy refused to cede any ground, appearing at a huge rally in the southern city of Toulon on Thursday to denounce his opponent as a threat to French values. "When you want to give immigrants without French citizenship voting rights, that's not the republic," he declared, referring to Hollande's pledge to allow French residents from outside Europe to vote in municipal elections. "When there are urban ghettos where the law is not respected, that's not the republic. When you wipe out borders, when you don't even dare speak of national identity, that's not the republic," he thundered, to loud applause. "The left is destroying the republic with its habit of regarding all things as having equal value," he said. "It's time for a national burst of energy." Hollande was just as determined, in front of a similar huge crowd in another southern city, Toulouse, where he denounced Sarkozy's record in office and predicted a Socialist victory, while cautioning against complacency. "You will hunt for victory, you will conquer it, tear it from the hands of the right," he declared, his voice hoarse after a long campaign and dozens of stump speeches and television appearances, including Wednesday's debate. Even as Hollande was speaking, he received a boost from one of the defeated first-round candidates, centrist Francois Bayrou, who revealed he would vote for Hollande despite concerns about his commitment to deficit-reduction. FRANCE 2012: THE ELECTION BLOG ON THE BLOGS Socialists don’t know 'real work': Sarkozy’s desperate Mayday call While Bayrou said he would not instruct the nine percent of the electorate who voted for him in the first round to vote one way or another, he said he had been offended by Sarkozy's lurch to the right since the first round. "I, personally, will vote for Francois Hollande," he said, expressing regret that the incumbent was pursuing the support of the 18 percent of the electorate that backed the far-right's Marine Le Pen. Bayrou noted in particular that he had been shocked by a Sarkozy television spot in which his campaign juxtaposed his promise to cut immigration with images of crowds of migrants and a customs post sign with an Arabic inscription. Bayrou's belated declaration was not expected to change the electoral map. Polls have long forecast that Hollande will win Sunday's run-off by around 54 percent to 46, and they show no signs of shifting before polling day. Following his second-place finish in the first round, Sarkozy reached out to the 6.5 million voters who had backed Le Pen's far-right anti-immigrant ticket, toughening his rhetoric on national borders and social issues. Most observers now expect a Hollande victory, after Wednesday's debate proved indecisive, despite fierce exchanges. Sarkozy had hoped to dominate, but instead Hollande belied his image as a soft consensus-builder by repeatedly attacking the incumbent. Sarkozy has trailed in opinion polls for more than six months and in the debate the clearly frustrated president called Hollande a "liar" and "arrogant" several times. Hollande's response was sometimes mocking, accusing Sarkozy of refusing to take responsibility for his record -- and of self-satisfaction in a period of grim economic crisis for many voters. "Francois Hollande's only weakness compared to Nicolas Sarkozy, that he's viewed as soft and blurry, was overcome last night," said Gael Sliman of the BVA opinion poll institute. A total of 17.79 million people watched the almost three-hour duel, audience monitor Mediametrie said, fewer than the 20.4 million who watched Hollande's former partner, Socialist Segolene Royal, take on Sarkozy in 2007. An LH2-Yahoo poll said 45 percent of those who watched the debate found Hollande more convincing, 41 preferred Sarkozy and 14 percent had no opinion. Sarkozy meanwhile dismissed reports that Moamer Kadhafi's regime had funded his 2007 election campaign. French news website Mediapart on Saturday published a 2006 document it said showed Libyan backing. On Thursday in Tunisia, lawyers for Libya's former premier, Baghdadi al-Mahmudi, said the Kadhafi regime had backed Sarkozy to the tune of 50 million euros ($65 million). Mahmudi is currently fighting extradition from Tunisia to Libya. But Libya's National Transitional Council (NTC), successors of Kadhafi's ousted regime, said Thursday they thought the note was a fake. Khadafi's former intelligence chief and foreign minister Mussa Kussa, allegedly involved in the transaction, has also dismissed the document as forged. Sarkozy has denounced the affair as a bid to disrupt his re-election campaign and is suing the Mediapart website.  
####2012 May 04####French election countdown####With just two days to go before the French presidential election comes to a head, one high-profile political player has thrown his weight behind Socialist frontrunner Francois Hollande. But the polls have dipped just a little...before the surprise announcement.Although François Hollande leads comfortably in the polls, Le Parisien reports that his rival Nicolas Sarkozy has narrowed the gap to five percentage points. But good news has come for Hollande in the eleventh hour, in the form of centrist leader Francois Bayrou. Having obtained 9% of the first round vote, he announced on Thursday night that he would vote for Hollande. For Le Parisien and others, this is big news.  It's the first time a centrist party has supported a party of the left. Libération asks whether Bayrou's move is a "centrist revolution." Bayrou says he is dismayed to see Sarkozy court the far-right, with rather too hard a line on immigration and border security.  But Bayrou did not go so far as to call on supporters to endorse the Socialists, prompting some to suggest that he is trying to keep his options open.  Finally, just when you thought the Dominique Strauss-Kahn saga was done or dormant, new legal worries threaten to perturb his temporary tranquillity.  Libération reports that the judges investigating allegations that he was involved in a prostitution ring, will now look into the possibility of indicting him for rape too.
####2012 May 04####French election: what social media changed####MEDIAWATCH, Fri. 4/4/2012: As the French election draws to a close, we take a look at the impact social media have had on the 2012 campaign. Also, a Freudian slip by the French defence minister has far-right undertones, and centrist François Bayrou features in several political cartoons today.
####2012 May 04####Chen, China and America####Look! The UK casts an admiring glance at France. A Harvard professor pounces on the diplomatic dilemma that emerged when Chen Guangcheng sought refuge in the US embassy. And a restaurant owner in Georgia uses a big bright sign outside to call President Barack Obama the 'N' word. Local officials say they can't do anything about it.Voters in English-speaking countries are all too aware of sagging voter turnout, fading interest in party politics, and widespread distrust of the system.  But a column in The Independent notes politics here in France is alive and well. Turnout in the first round of the French elections was 80%. The internet is abuzz and Twitter is aflutter. But the Indy tries to debunk a few myths - not least that Francois Hollande would be a raving tax-and-spend Socialist president. No, it says, he has been stressing growth over austerity. But nor should one write off Nicolas Sarkozy just yet - he is known as a political brawler, who won't let this go without a fight.  Chen Guangcheng is a now-famous Chinese activist who had been jailed and put under house arrest after protesting against enforced sterilisation and forced abortions under China's one-child policy. The Economist says his ability to educate himself as an adult after a childhood in poverty encapsulates the potential of modern China. But the blind activist's detention also exposes the abiding limits of liberty.  For Nicholas Burns, a Harvard professor writing in the Christian Science Monitor, this is further proof that China is to blame for brutally suppressing dissent. And the US ambassador's offer to shelter Chen at the US embassy shows just how devoted the US is to justice. It's a patriotic piece bordering on chauvinistic nationalism, to be taken with a grain of salt. Or two.  Finally, The Huffington Post reports on a restaurant owner in the US state of Georgia who uses his big outdoor sign to castigate the president.  It reads, "I do not support the N... in the White House." Local officials say they cannot do anything about it. Really?
####2012 May 04####The World This Week - May 4th, 2012####France’s bruising presidential election campaign concludes with Socialist François Hollande pulling ahead in the polls, but François Picard’s panel points to a fickle far-right electorate that could spring surprises come Sunday. Also, the anti-Europe vote in Greece, and the UK and Washington’s blushes over China’s Chen affair.Christopher Dickey. Paris Bureau Chief, Newsweek. Columnist, The Daily Beast; Anne-Elisabeth Moutet. Columnist, The Sunday Telegraph; Philippe Moreau Chevrolet. Columnist, Nouvel Observateur; Edward Cody. Paris Correspondent, The Washington Post. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Paul Maakad. Watch the second part here.
####2012 May 04####The World This Week - May 4th, 2012 (part 2)####France’s bruising presidential election campaign concludes with Socialist François Hollande pulling ahead in the polls, but François Picard’s panel points to a fickle far-right electorate that could spring surprises come Sunday. Also, the anti-Europe vote in Greece, and the UK and Washington’s blushes over China’s Chen affair.Christopher Dickey. Paris Bureau Chief, Newsweek. Columnist, The Daily Beast; Anne-Elisabeth Moutet. Columnist, The Sunday Telegraph; Philippe Moreau Chevrolet. Columnist, Nouvel Observateur; Edward Cody. Paris Correspondent, The Washington Post. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Paul Maakad. Watch the first part here.
####2012 May 04####What does the US think of François Hollande?####US President Barack Obama wasted little time before inviting French President-Elect François Hollande to the White House. The two leaders will meet for bilateral talks before the G8 and NATO summits set to take place in the US later in May. But what does the US make of the new French leader?
####2012 May 05####France set to vote for president as Europe looks on####A crisis-weary Europe is keenly waiting to see who will be France's next president as Socialist favourite François Hollande challenges incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy in a run-off vote.Some 46 million French voters are set to cast their ballot on Sunday in what has been billed as the country’s tightest presidential race in decades. Incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy has been trailing his Socialist challenger François Hollande for months, but polls suggest a last-minute 2% swing in voters’ intentions could be enough to see the conservative incumbent snatch a second term in office. The first round of voting on April 22 saw François Hollande claim 28.63% of the vote to Sarkozy’s 27.18%, with third-placed Marine Le Pen of the far-right National Front garnering a surprise 17.90%. While other left-wing parties and centrist candidate François Bayrou have said they will cast their second-round ballot in favour of Hollande, the traditionally unpredictable behavior of far-right voters has cast a measure of uncertainty on the outcome of the May 6 runoff. Sarkozy is also hoping that a large number of centrist voters, once in the ballot booth, will ponder his oft-repeated warning that a Socialist victory would send France spiralling the way of Greece “in less than two days”. Campaign mudslinging The two weeks following the first round have been marked by heated exchanges and much mudslinging between the two camps, with Sarkozy unabashedly campaigning to woo Marine Le Pen’s voters on the far right. Openly betting on a post-election implosion of the UMP, the National Front leader has refused to endorse either of the candidates and said she would cast a blank ballot. Nicolas Sarkozy is set to vote on Sunday morning in the posh 16th arrondissement of Paris, along with his wife Carla Bruni-Sarkozy. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day Hollande, who is hoping to clinch a first presidential victory for the Socialists in more than two decades, has sought to comfort his lead in the polls by already striking a presidential posture and repeatedly using his campaign catchword of “rassemblement” (unity) to distance himself from Sarkozy’s aggressive stance on immigrants and attempts to oppose “real workers” against left-leaning trade unions. Claims about Hollande’s supposed “spinelessness” were put to rest after his strong performance in a May 2 televised debate, in which neither candidate could land a knock-out blow. The Socialist challenger will cast his vote in Tulle, a rural town in the central department of Correze, which he represents in the French parliament. The latest austerity victim? Although this presidential election is widely perceived as a domestic referendum on Sarkozy’ style of government, European leaders are likely to view its outcome in the wider context of the continent’s unending debt crisis. Most European countries that have held an election since the 2008 financial crisis have thrown out their leaders – including Italy, Spain, Portugal, and Britain. Greece, which also goes to the polls on Sunday, is expected to follow suit. The first partial results in France, due to be released at 8pm Paris time, will be keenly awaited in capitals across Europe, where the French presidential campaign has rekindled a debate about the relative merits of austerity and growth. While German Chancellor Angela Merkel has openly sided with her French counterpart Sarkozy, several European leaders have made no secret of their hope that an Hollande victory will spell the end of the “Merkozy” recipe for austerity.  
####2012 May 06####Britain's French expatriates turn out to vote en masse####Many of the 70,000 registered French voters living in Britain turned out to cast ballots in France's presidential run-off on Sunday, with 100-metre-long lines forming in London, known as France's "sixth city" because of its large French population.AFP - French nationals in Britain flocked to voting centres Sunday to cast their ballots for president, with long lines forming in London, dubbed France's sixth city because of its large expatriate population. There are more than 70,000 French nationals on the consular electoral list in Britain, with two polling stations in London as well as about a dozen cities including Birmingham, Liverpool and Glasgow. Many people turned out as soon as the centres opened at 0700 GMT to avoid a repeat of the situation in the first round of the contest, when there were queues of up to three hours to vote in London. Still, a line around 100 metres (yards) long stretched from the Charles-de-Gaulle French secondary school in southwest London; while at a college in north London voters turned out with thermos flasks and cups of tea to brave the cold. THE FRANCE 24 INTERVIEW FRANCE 24/RFI EXCLUSIVE Hollande says Sarkozy has damaged France’s image "This time, I got up early," said Nadege Galle, a 33-year-old chemist, saying that in the first round she came in the afternoon and had to wait an hour in the rain. This time it took just half an hour for her to cast her vote. French officials took steps to reduce queues for the second round including closing voting centres an hour later at 1800 GMT, opening two extra ballot boxes at the French school and adding extra officials, most of whom are volunteers. "It's gone much better" than in the first round, said Olivier Bertin, a Green candidate in legislative elections, who was queuing at the school. "I came at around the same time last time and and waited two hours." An estimated 300,000 to 350,000 French nationals live in London out of the city's total population of more than eight million, but only around a fifth are registered to vote in the presidential election in their homeland. "I think the result will be close. I said to myself, the one time that my vote is going to count, why not come and vote?" said IT worker Sebastien Bastello. The number of ballot boxes is double that in 2007 when conservative Nicolas Sarkozy won. French nationals living in Canada, the United States and South America went to the polls Saturday, while voters in Australia and New Zealand did so on Sunday. About 46 million people are eligible to vote in France on Sunday, with Socialist Francois Hollande the firm favourite despite signs that Sarkozy had narrowed the gap slightly in the closing straight.  
####2012 May 06####Hollande ousts Sarkozy in French presidential vote####Left-wing candidate François Hollande has defeated incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy in Sunday's runoff, becoming the first Socialist to win a French presidential election since François Mitterrand in 1988.French socialist François Hollande won France’s presidential election on Sunday, with thousands of his supporters rallying across the country to celebrate the left’s return to the Elysée Palace after almost two decades out of office. France’s Interior Ministry said the left-wing candidate claimed around 51.62% of the runoff vote to incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy’s 48.38%, with turnout at 81.34%. In a victory speech in the central town of Tulles, where he once served as mayor, Hollande said he would be a president for all French people. “We are not a France divided, we are one single France, all united in the same destiny,” he told his supporters. PROFILE: FRANÇOIS HOLLANDE FRANCE Hollande hails 'revolutionary' new lithium battery plant The president-elect then flew to Paris to join a huge crowd gathered on the iconic Place de la Bastille, the same spot where the last Socialist to win a presidential election, François Mitterrand, celebrated his first victory back in 1981. Thousands of people also converged on the headquarters of the Socialist Party in central Paris. “I travelled by myself all the way from [the northwest city of] Caen to be here,” Emma, a 17-year-old student, told FRANCE 24. “I didn’t want to miss this moment. I fought hard to help François Hollande win." The Socialists and their left-wing allies will be hoping to keep the momentum going as they bid to win back a majority in parliament in next month's legislative polls. Sanctioning Sarkozy In pictures: François Hollande's supporters celebrate in Paris On Sunday, Sarkozy became only the second French president to fail to claim a second mandate since Valéry Giscard d'Estaing was swept out of office in 1981. The incumbent president conceded defeat in a speech to supporters in Paris shortly after polls closed at 8pm local time. “I have telephoned François Hollande to congratulate him and wish him good luck,” he said.  But in a thinly veiled jab that reflected the bitter tone of the campaign, Sarkozy urged supporters to "respect" Hollande, before adding: "we will never be like those who fought against us". According to a survey by Ipsos polling institute, half of Hollande’s voters said their first reason for voting for the left-wing candidate was to oust Sarkozy. The same survey found that 35% of people who voted for far-right candidate Marineblank ballots or abstained in the runoff, depriving Sarkozy of crucial support from the right. The latest in a long list of incumbents ousted during Europe's debt crisis, the French president had consistently trailed his Socialist rival in opinion polls, at times by as much as 10%. Vincent Callius, a Sarkozy supporter in Paris, said he had believed in a win despite the negative odds. “Sarkozy was voted out more for his style than for his actions. François Hollande does not have a suitable programme for this country and the economic crisis is going to become a whole lot worse under him,” he said. Rolling up his sleeves Sunday's election marked the end of a year-long campaign for Hollande, who won his party’s internal primaries in October of last year and came out on top in the first round of the poll on April 22. Hollande has promised to add 60,000 new staff to the state education system, reduce the retirement age from 62 to 60 for some workers, and balance the country’s budget by the end of his five-year mandate. But Europe's continuing debt woes are likely to top his agenda in the coming weeks, with crisis-weary nations hoping France's president-elect can persuade Germany to ease its austerity drive. “It’s now my mission to give Europe a measure of growth, employment, prosperity,” Hollande said in Tulles. “That is what I will tell our European partners as soon as possible, and starting with Germany, in the name of the friendship that unites us and the responsibility we share.” Having openly backed Sarkozy during the campaign, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Sunday she had congratulated Hollande and invited him to Berlin. Earlier, German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle said overcoming the debt crisis was a common objective for both countries. “We have agreed on a fiscal treaty for less debt and we will now jointly draft a growth pact that will create more growth alongside greater competivity,” he said at the French embassy in Berlin. Hollande is due to be sworn in as France’s president on May 15. His first meeting with US President Barack Obama and other heads of state is likely to take place on May 18 at a gathering of the G8 leading industrialized countries in the United States.
####2012 May 06####France votes in tight presidential race####French voters turned out in high numbers on Sunday in a presidential run-off that pits the favourite, Socialist challenger François Hollande, against incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy. More than 30% of the electorate had voted by noon.AFP - French voters turned out in numbers Sunday to give their verdict in a hard-fought presidential battle between right-wing incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist challenger Francois Hollande. Opinion polls and electioneering were banned in the final 32 hours before polling stations opened, but Hollande began the day as firm favourite despite signs that Sarkozy had narrowed the gap slightly in the closing straight. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day Dark grey skies and scattered rain showers greeted early voters in Paris, but turnout was high by recent standards in a highly political country today split roughly 50-50 between left-leaning and right-leaning camps. More than 46 million voters were eligible to take part, and around 80 percent of them were expected to do so. Polling was to close at 8:00 pm (1800 GMT) and an estimated result was to be given immediately afterwards. Four hours after polling began just over 30 percent of the electorate had turned out, more than during the first round vote on April 22, but down on the 34 percent who had taken part at the same stage in the 2007 run-off. Hollande campaigned as a consensus-building moderate focused on restoring economic growth and is seen as on course to become France's first Socialist president since Francois Mitterrand left office in 1995. Sarkozy has trailed consistently in opinion polls for the last six months, but fought a bruising campaign focused on mobilising voters fearful that immigration and globalisation threaten the French way of life. Hollande voted early in his adopted hometown Tulle, in the rural backwoods of the Correze region, accompanied by his girlfriend Valerie Trierweiler and welcomed by a crowd of supporters and journalists from around the globe. "It's going to be a long day," he said. "I don't know if it's going to be a good day -- that's for the French to decide -- but for a portion of them it will obviously be a good day, and not for the others." Sarkozy and his former supermodel wife Carla Bruni-Sarkozy voted at a high school in Paris' chic 16th district followed by a dense pack of photographers and acclaimed by a well-heeled crowd gathered behind street barriers. Final opinion polls conducted on Friday before campaigning was officially suspended for the weekend suggested the still energetic Sarkozy may have closed the gap on the frontrunner to as little as four percent. But a complete turnaround would still constitute a surprise, and Hollande was expected to assume the leadership of France, the eurozone's second-largest economy and a nuclear-armed permanent member of the UN Security Council. Total voter turnout in the first round last month was high, at just under 80 percent, and the duelling run-off candidates, both aged 57, have warned their supporters not to stay at home as every vote counts. Even before polls opened on the mainland, more than a million had voted in overseas territories and consulates in foreign cities with a large French expatriate population, with turnout slightly higher than in the first round. If he loses, Sarkozy will become the first French president since Valery Giscard d'Estaing in 1981 not to be re-elected. He is already the first ever incumbent not to come out ahead in the first round of voting. France has a strict ban on publishing result estimates until all polls close, but foreign media websites are expected to publish estimates before then, and these will spread quickly via Twitter and Facebook. Anyone breaking the law on sharing early estimates faces a fine of 75,000 euros (100,000 dollars), but French citizens got around the restriction in the first round by using code words and the Twitter hashtag #RadioLondres. Hollande won the first round with 28.63 percent of the votes to Sarkozy's 27.18 percent, and both candidates have been fighting for the votes of those whose candidates failed to make the run-off. Far-right anti-immigrant candidate Marine Le Pen, who won almost 18 percent in the first round, said she had cast a blank ballot, and observers expected many of her supporters to do the same. "I clearly said I would cast a blank vote, I am not in the habit of changing my mind," she said after voting in the northern town of Henin-Beaumont, where she is a regional councillor. "The two remaining candidates are political Siamese twins, so I'm not expecting very much from the result," Le Pen told journalists. The polling institute Ifop, however, forecasts that 55 percent of her voters would back Sarkozy and 19 percent Hollande. Hollande needs a strong mandate to implement his programme to counter EU-driven austerity, while Sarkozy has played on fears that the election of a Socialist would send shudders through the EU and the financial markets. Whoever wins will next have to build a parliamentary majority after June's legislative elections, but the formal handover of presidential power is expected on or around May 15 -- in any case before May 17.
####2012 May 06####Live blog: Hollande's victory as it happened####Follow FRANCE 24's live blog on France’s President-elect François Hollande’s victory in the second and final round of the presidential election as it happened.French presidential election live blog <a href="http://www.coveritlive.com/mobile.php/option=com_mobile/task=viewaltcast/altcast_code=8cb49261ee" >EN_presidentielles_FINAL</a>
####2012 May 06####Socialist Hollande triumphs in French presidential poll####Left-wing candidate François Hollande has defeated incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy in Sunday's runoff, exit polls say, becoming the first Socialist to win a presidential election since François Mitterrand in 1988.François Hollande has won France’s presidential election, giving the country its first Socialist president in almost two decades, exit polls showed Sunday. Results by France’s interior ministry showed that left-wing candidate had claimed 51.56% of the runoff vote to incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy’s 48.44% with nearly all the ballots counted. Celebrations are underway at the iconic Place de la Bastille in central Paris, the same spot where the last Socialist to win a presidential election, François Mitterrand, celebrated his first victory back in 1981. PORTRAIT FRANCE 24 A look at François Hollande, the next French president. Hollande, who voted on Sunday in the central Corrèze region, which he represents in the French parliament, was considered the frontrunner throughout the campaign, at times leading his rival by as much as 10% in opinion polls. He finished ahead in the first round on April 22, claiming 28.63% of votes cast against Sarkozy's 27.18%. In a twin blow to Sarkozy between the two rounds, far-right candidate Marine Le Pen and centrist François Bayrou, who gathered around 18% and 9% respectively in the first round, both denied the incumbent an endorsement. Bayrou told supporters his personal vote would go to Hollande, while Le Pen said she would cast a blank vote. At 80%, according to Ipsos, voter turnout was strong, though slightly lower than the 84% reached in 2007. Hollande is due to be sworn in as France’s president on May 14 or 15. Winning platform Sunday's election capped a stunning comeback for Hollande, whose career appeared to be all but over after he left the leadership of the Socialist Party in 2008. It also marked the end of a year-long campaign for the veteran politician, who won his party’s internal primaries in October of last year, establishing himself from the start as a moderate left-winger with the best chances of appealing to centrists and beating Sarkozy. In an often bitter presidential campaign, Hollande promised to hire more staff to boost France’s state education system and to reduce the retirement age from 62 to 60 for people who have completed a minimum 41 years of work. He also pledged to raise taxes on the wealthy and balance the country's budget by 2017. And while both the far right and Sarkozy adopted an anti-immigration stance during the campaign, the Socialist candidate stood by a promise to give foreigners the right to vote in local elections. Socialists return to power On Sunday, Sarkozy became only the second French president to fail to claim a second mandate since Valéry Giscard d'Estaing was swept out of office in 1981. It was also the first time the Socialist Party won a presidential contest since Mitterrand's re-election in 1988. FRANCE 24 REPORTS France In five years, Sarkozy went from punchy candidate to unpopular president. France's Socialists will be hoping to use the vote’s momentum to win back a majority in parliament in elections this June. Before then, governments around the world will be keenly watching Hollande's first steps on the issue of Europe’s continuing debt crisis The Socialist president-elect, who has emerged as a new champion for Europe's anti-austerity camp, was expected to call German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday evening. Merkel, who has advocated strict austerity in Europe, backed Sarkozy in the elections. “He will talk with the German chancellor because in that exchange lies the key to Europe’s recovery, redirecting Europe towards growth, competitiveness and protection,” said Jean-Marc Ayrault, a prominent Socialist who is being touted as a possible future prime minister. A meeting of the so-called Group of Eight leading world economies on May 18 in the United States could be the first opportunity for Hollande to shake hands with President Barack Obama and other heads of state.  
####2012 May 07####'Président Hollande' in times of crisis####François Hollande, who ran as ‘Mr. Normal’, convinced French voters that he is way different from Nicolas Sarkozy. Now it is time for hard work - and difficulties. François Hollande will have to hit the ground running, and take charge in the middle of an unprecedented crisis in Europe.Steven ERLANGER, New York Times Paris bureau chief Patrick VIGNAL, Reuters news agency Jim SHIELDS, Professor at Aston University and author of 'The Extreme Right in France: From Pétain to Le Pen' Ulrike KOLTERMANN, Former Paris correspondent for German news agency D-P-A, author of Pariser Spaziergänge Watch Part Two Produced by Christopher Davis, Tom Waterhouse, Anelise Borges
####2012 May 07####'Président Hollande' in times of crisis (part 2)####François Hollande, who ran as ‘Mr. Normal’, convinced French voters that he is way different from Nicolas Sarkozy. Now it is time for hard work - and difficulties. François Hollande will have to hit the ground running, and take charge in the middle of an unprecedented crisis in Europe.Steven ERLANGER, New York Times Paris bureau chief Patrick VIGNAL, Reuters news agency Jim SHIELDS, Professor at Aston University and author of 'The Extreme Right in France: From Pétain to Le Pen' Ulrike KOLTERMANN, Former Paris correspondent for German news agency D-P-A, author of Pariser Spaziergänge Watch Part One Produced by Christopher Davis, Tom Waterhouse, Anelise Borges
####2012 May 07####Europe's victory?####Is President Hollande really dangerous for the future of Europe? For some of the foreign papers, he's their greatest hope - for others, he's a disaster waiting to happen.For Spain's El Pais, this is a victory for all of Europe, and Hollande is the man who could finally pull the continent out of its economic slump. The Guardian also says he's what France needs - but the FT points out his in-tray is already packed with challenges, from the European economy to pulling French troops out of NATO. And will the foreign press miss Nicolas Sarkozy? The New York Times thinks so - the Daily Mail is less keen.
####2012 May 07####Economic woes mean no honeymoon for Hollande####A day after his triumph in the presidential election runoff François Hollande faces a lengthy to-do list as he prepares to take up his seat at the Elysée Palace. Top of the agenda is the unenviable task of trying to fix France’s ailing economy.François Hollande may have defeated his rival Nicolas Sarkozy in Sunday’s dramatic runoff vote but a considerably tougher task now awaits him. France faces record unemployment, stuttering growth and spiraling public debt, meaning Hollande will have little time to enjoy the taste of victory. His triumph against Sarkozy has been compared to that of the previous Socialist Party president Francois Mitterrand in 1981. Then, Mitterrand also rose to power on a wave of socialist fervor to oust the incumbent president Valéry Giscard D’Estaing. But according to some economists that is where the comparisons end. “Unlike 1981, there will be no honeymoon period for François Hollande,” Michel Sapin, a former Socialist Party finance minister said on Monday, just a day after Hollande’s runoff victory. “The state of the country’s economy is much worse than it was then,” he said. At the start of his election campaign Hollande had vowed to “change the destiny of France” but a number of obstacles stand in the way of fulfilling this promise. Growth versus austerity, Hollande versus Merkel During his election campaign Hollande vowed to rewrite the European fiscal pact put together by ex-president Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel. He promised to shift the focus of the treaty towards growth measures. In his victory speech to the hordes of followers at the iconic Place de la Bastille on Sunday night Hollande attacked the austerity policies favoured by Merkel and Sarkozy. To take advantage of all the features on FRANCE24.COM, please click here to download the latest version of Flash Player. "We cannot accept that Europe is the only continent to be in a recession when we see recovery in the USA and the emerging countries with growth of 7 or 8 percent so we have to do everything to ensure growth." - François Hollande The next day Merkel remained diplomatic, saying she would welcome the new president with “open arms” but poured cold water on any notion the fiscal treaty was up for discussion. Hollande is expected to pay a visit to Berlin in the days following his inauguration on May 15. Boosting industry Hollande's desire to kickstart growth is particularly focused on France’s ailing industrial sector. He plans to create an investment fund for small and medium sized enterprises which will be endowed with more than €6 billion. To finance this program the new president has forecast a growth rate that will pass 1.5 percent by 2013. The IMF however is less optimistic, predicting growth will only be around 1 percent. But Professor Tomasz Michalski, from HEC business school in Paris believes Hollande, whatever his ambitions are, may in fact find that his hands are tied. “I do not see what levers he can really pull to stimulate growth in the short term,” he told FRANCE 24. “My sense is that a lot of what is going to happen does not really depend on him but on external factors, like if there’s another eurozone crisis or Italy or Spain goes under. That would be a disaster.” Spending on schools One of Hollande’s more ambitious promises is to create 60,000 new jobs in education to boost school staff numbers after drastic cuts made under Sarkozy. The bill for doing so is estimated at around 2 billion euros. With public spending in France already accounting for roughly 56 percent of the GDP and with Hollande insisting he will balance the books by 2017, he might find that 2 billion euros hard to come by. He may want to create jobs but it is more likely his early months in office will coincide with some major job cuts among France’s biggest employers. FRANCE - EUROZONE Focus on EU growth to follow Hollande victory Air France could set the ball rolling when company chiefs meet in June to decide on the scale of the voluntary redundancy plan it aims to implement. The future is also not looking so rosy at retail giant Carrefour, where the CEO Georges Plassat is due to meet trade unions in the coming months. Staff fear as many as 3,000 posts could be lost. Taxing the rich The French elite could be forgiven for being slightly concerned after Hollande’s win after he promised to hit those earning over €1million euros a year with a new 75 percent tax rate. The proposal was applauded by the left but others feared a mass exodus of the country’s top earners. Professor Michalski believes the tax would have little impact in the short term but could prove a ‘disaster’ further down the line. But Michalski believes that the proposal may include enough carefully worded small print to exempt many of the country’s millionaires from having to pay the extra charge. He also wants to introduce a salary cap on executives of public companies. World of Finance The reaction of the financial markets to Hollande’s victory was awaited with baited breath by many French investors. Considering Hollande had previously declared the world of finance was his “real enemy” many feared a Socialist Party triumph would be greeted by a plunge in share prices. Even Sarkozy stoked fears that France would turn into the next Greece if Hollande was elected. But the sharp dip seen throughout European and Asian markets was attributed to the shock results of the Greek elections, where voters turned against mainstream parties and their plans for austerity. But some financiers believe those fears could be misplaced, in the short term at least. “The markets will not attack France just because François Hollande is a socialist,” Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, from the Peterson Institute for International Economics, told the New York Times. “But there is a risk that if Hollande does not act early on, France will become the next sick man of Europe,” he added, somewhat ominously for the president-elect.
####2012 May 07####Markets fall after anti-austerity wins in French, Greek elections####Victories by anti-austerity parties in France and Greece on Sunday sent European shares sliding Monday. The biggest upset was in Greece, where shares traded 8.2% lower, while Germany's DAX fell by 1.4% and the French CAC index by 1.2%.AP - Renewed uncertainty over Europe’s ability to deal with its spawning debt crisis following elections in Greece and France hammered stock markets Monday, with the main exchange in Athens down a massive 8 percent. Investors have been particularly spooked by the Sunday election in Greece, which has resulted in a split Parliament where no party looks like it will be able to form a government. The two parties that governed as a coalition for the past six months were pummeled to the benefit of more extreme parties of the right and left. The socialist Pasok party suffered the biggest retreat. Its share of the vote collapsed from around 43 percent in the last election in 2009 to a little over 13 percent. A period of uncertainty looms for the bailed-out country, which is in its fifth year of recession and has over half its youth out of work following big spending cuts and tax increases in return for crucial international bailout funds. If no government can be formed that can command a majority in Parliament, another general election within the next two months seems possible. “As for the Greek elections, they resulted in complete uncertainty with the possibility of another election taking place in the near future in order to try and put in place a government that can actually have some modicum of control,” said Gary Jenkins, managing director of Swordfish Research. With more than 99 percent of the vote counted, conservative New Democracy led with 18.9 percent and 108 of Parliament’s 300 seats. Party leader Antonis Samaras, who backs Greece’s bailout commitments for austerity, will launch coalition-forming talks later in the day. Further weighing on sentiment is Sunday’s defeat of French President Nicolas Sarkozy to his socialist rival Francois Hollande, who has campaigned on the need for more growth-generating economic policies and less reliance on austerity. Final results from France’s presidential election show Hollande narrowly defeated incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy with 51.62 percent of the vote. Even German Chancellor Angela Merkel suffered a setback Sunday in a regional election in the northern state of Schleswig-Holstein. Merkel and her government have borne the brunt of the criticism over Europe’s austerity drive. “Election defeats for President Sarkozy, and for the main coalition parties in Greece and for Angela Merkel’s party in Schleswig Holstein highlight voter backlash against austerity, economic contraction in unemployment,” said Neil MacKinnon, global macro strategist at VTB Capital. In Europe, Germany’s DAX was down 1.4 percent at 5,468, while the CAC-40 in France fell 1.2 percent to 3,125. The FTSE 100 of leading British shares was closed for a public holiday. Greek shares suffered worse, trading 8.2 percent lower. In the currency markets, the euro recovered some of its poise after falling to a three-month low against the dollar during Asian trading hours. It was up 0.4 percent at $1.3018, having earlier fallen to a low of $1.2972. Wall Street was also poised to open lower with Dow futures and the S&P 500 futures both 0.7 percent lower. Earlier in Asia, Japan’s Nikkei 225 index plunged 2.8 percent to close at 9,119.14 - its lowest finish in three months - with the market’s export sector also sapped by a rising yen. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng slid 2.6 percent to 20,536.59. In other Asia markets, Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 lost 2.2 percent to 4,301.30 and South Korea’s Kospi shed 1.6 percent to 1,956.44. Oil prices fell alongside equities, with the benchmark New York rate down 91 cents at $97.58 a barrel.
####2012 May 07####Hollande's victory: The tortoise who beat the hare####If Nicolas Sarkozy is the hyperactive hare in the Aesop legend, France’s incoming president, François Hollande, is the proverbial tortoise. History has shown that slow and steady wins the race.In style and probably in substance, France’s incoming president could not be more different than the country’s outgoing leader. François Hollande’s political rise to the country’s top post has been slow and steady, with the French media portraying him as “Monsieur Normal” – an easygoing, everyday man. Contrast that with the glamour-struck Nicolas Sarkozy, who earned the nickname “hyper-president” during his five years in office. In pictures: François Hollande's supporters celebrate in Paris If Hollande’s victory has a fabled quality, it surely mirrors Aesop’s “The Hare and The Tortoise”, with the steady, shelled creature finally outpacing the hyperactive hare. International audiences are probably more familiar with his former partner, Ségolène Royal, who unsuccessfully ran against Sarkozy in the 2007 presidential poll. For those who knew him during the 2012 campaign trail – and that includes his comrades on the left – Hollande was the butt of snide, if good-natured, monikers, including “Flanby” (a wobbly custard) and “capitaine du pedalo,’ or the captain of a pedal boat. But in the course of his bid for presidency, Hollande emerged as a statesman-like figure, a change that included an image makeover, complete with a 10 kilo weight loss and designer glasses. In substance, the transformation was apparent during the only televised debate of the 2012 presidential campaign, when the 57-year-old Socialist politician exuded confidence as he sat back and took on a pugnacious, finger-jabbing Sarkozy. Catholic upbringing, education in prestigious institutions HOLLANDE: A LIFE IN PICTURES Hollande’s easy-going nature, however, belies a determination he maintained over a 30-year political career that has seen him serve as Socialist Party boss, a small town mayor and leader of an administrative region in central France. Born into a middle class family in the northern French city of Rouen, Hollande’s mother, Nicole, was a social worker and his father, Georges, a medical doctor. An authoritative father, Georges was once a far-right candidate in a local election. Hollande was much closer to his mother, a former Socialist militant. While the family name “Hollande” is believed to come from Calvinist ancestors who escaped the Netherlands, Hollande was brought up as a Catholic. Unlike Sarkzoy, Hollande’s educational background mirrors that of France’s political elites. After graduating from one of the country’s foremost business schools, Hollande won admission to France’s prestigious Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris. Known by its acronym, ENA, the Paris-based school has traditionally supplied France’s political elites. It was during his time at ENA that Hollande met Ségolène Royal, who would be his partner for the next 30 years. The couple had four children together. France’s high-flying power couple Hollande started his political career as a student volunteer for François Mitterrand’s unsuccessful 1974 presidential bid. By the time Mitterrand was elected to the Elysée presidential palace in 1981, Hollande had become a special adviser to the newly-elected Socialist president, before serving as a staffer for the government's spokesman. French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day His political stints included representative of the central Corrèze region and mayor of the town of Tulle. Meanwhile, his partner, Royal, went on to serve as Environment Minister in 1992, as the duo turned into the epitome of the high-flying power couple. While attention was focused on Royal as she entered the national political stage, Hollande chose to climb the Socialist party ranks. In 1997 he became party leader, a position he retained following Lionel Jospin’s 2002 unsuccessful bid for the presidency. Those were difficult days for the party and Hollande was seen as a quiet, dependable figure taking over the party reins – a role he played during Royal’s 2007 bid for the presidency. But his partner’s presidential campaign put a noticeable strain on the relationship, and shortly after Royal’s defeat to Sarkozy the couple announced their separation. Hollande’s girlfriend, Valerie Trierweiler, a political journalist, is widely seen as an asset to the presidential ticket. But Hollande himself was not viewed as a Socialist presidential candidate until front-runner Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former IMF chief and Socialist frontrunner, was arrested in New York in May 2011 on sexual assault charges, effectively ending Strauss-Kahn’s presidential hopes. In October 2011, Hollande won the French Socialist primary, becoming the party’s candidate to run against Sarkzoy. The rest, as they say, is history.
####2012 May 07####Thousands storm Bastille for left's long-awaited party####Jubilant supporters of François Hollande swarmed into the symbolic Place de la Bastille on Sunday night to celebrate the Socialist candidate's victory at the polls. It was a party they had waited a long time to hold.The iconic Bastille square in Paris played host to an almighty party on Sunday as supporters of François Hollande celebrated his triumph in France's presidential election. Tens of thousands of people descended on the symbolic rallying point for France’s left after his victory over the incumbent president, Nicolas Sarkozy, was announced at 8pm. People of all ages, creeds and colours packed into to the Bastille to revel in the first victory for a left-wing candidate since François Mitterrand was re-elected to the Elysée Palace in 1988. Fabien Montel, 30, told FRANCE 24: “Tonight is history in the making. It is not everyday you get to come to Place de La Bastille and see this.” 'Just as good' as 1981 Back in January, François Hollande had vowed to put young French people at the heart of his mandate and the country’s youth were out in force on Sunday. Many would not have remembered the last time a Socialist victory was celebrated at the Bastille. But there were also those who did. PORTRAIT FRANCE 24 A look at François Hollande, the next French president. “In 1981 it was slightly different because the French left had never been in power before,” said Jean-Louis Renoir, a 55-year-old member of the Socialist Party.  “But even so, after going so long without a socialist president, tonight is just as good.” “It is a night when you cannot just sit at home and watch on television. You have to be here to be here to see it,” he added. Jean-Luc Porcedo, another veteran of past socialist victories, brought along his two sons Simon and Thomas so they could witness history in the making. “I was here in 1981 when Mitterrand won and I wanted my sons to be here tonight to see this. The feeling of joy is exactly the same and this time it is not raining. “We had to wait too long for another victory like this. We are happy for the future of our children and it is important that they are here to witness this. We now hope François Hollande will restore the values of the Republic.” 'Change Now' The victorious candidate, who had spent the day in the central region of Corrèze, was treated to a rapturous reception as he took to the stage just after midnight.  Shouting himself hoarse as so often during the campaign, he thanked "the people of France here united for allowing [him] to become the president of France”. Flares were lit and bottles of champagne were popped as the hordes revelled in his triumph. Crowds swarmed over the Bastille monument to get a better view while others climbed on top of traffic lights. Hollande had campaigned on a promise to bring “Change Now” and those who turned out to see his victory speech were looking forward to a brighter future. “He represents social justice, solidarity, tolerance and modesty and that is what we hope to see now,” Jeannie Amsellem told FRANCE 24. 'Bye bye Sarkozy' Many of those who descended on the Bastille were simply glad to see the back of Nicolas Sarkozy, who became the first president since Valéry Giscard D’Estaing in 1981 to be voted out of power. His departure was celebrated by a group of women of African origin who danced and sang “Sarkozy dictator”. Others chanted “Bye bye Sarkozy” and other more derogatory words. Lamia Bernard, 45, told FRANCE 24: “We have got rid of him! It’s fantastic. He only cared about the rich people, the rest of us, the real workers, were forgotten.” Her husband Eric added: “Sarkozy was the worst president France has had. He insulted the people of this country.” Another Hollande supporter Severin Dronet, 30 said: “I came to the Bastille not only to celebrate the victory of Hollande but also the departure of Sarkozy and the right who tried to take this country towards the extreme right.” The scenes at la Bastille were a far cry from those at La Mutualite, on the other side of the river Seine, where supporters of Nicolas Sarkozy had gathered for the election result. The tears and groans of disappointment among Sarkozy followers offered a stark contrast to the smiles, raised fists and cries of victory at the Bastille. The left's victory party looked set to go on long into the night as another generation of French voters took their chance to celebrate the triumph of a socialist candidate.
####2012 May 07####Merkel says fiscal pact is not up for renegotiation####The European Union's fiscal pact is not up for renegotiation, German Chancellor Angela said Monday, but France's newly-elected Socialist president, Francois Hollande, would be met with 'open arms'.AFP - German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Monday she would welcome French president-elect Francois Hollande "with open arms" when he visits Berlin after his inauguration next week. She said they agreed during a phone call on Sunday to work "well and intensively" together, adding: "Franco-German cooperation is essential for Europe and we all want Europe to succeed." Merkel said Hollande would visit the German capital shortly after his inauguration as president, expected to take place on May 15, without giving a date for the much-awaited meeting. The German chancellor irked Hollande by openly campaigning for his rival Nicolas Sarkozy, who comes from the same conservative political family as Merkel. During the campaign, Hollande won few friends in Berlin by criticising Merkel's insistence on austerity as the way out of the eurozone debt crisis, seeking to shift the focus to growth. But Merkel told reporters that both budgetary consolidation as well as growth was necessary in Europe and reiterated that the EU's fiscal pact -- aimed at reducing ballooning deficits -- was not up for discussion. "I believe the fiscal pact is correct and secondly I think that we can't simply re-open for discussion everything we have already agreed after an election in a small or big country," she said. All this would be discussed with Hollande in a "friendly fashion" when he visits Berlin, Merkel said, adding: "For me, it's about the future of Europe."
####2012 May 07####Sarkozy 'to quit French politics' after election defeat####After failing in his bid for re-election Nicolas Sarkozy looks set to leave political life behind him after reportedly telling his aides that "a page has turned". But not everyone believes the book has been closed for good.Nicolas Sarkozy looks set to leave the world of politics behind him after being ousted from power in Sunday’s presidential election runoff. After failing to convince a majority of French voters to back his re-election bid Sarkozy became the first president since 1981 to be voted out of office after serving just one term. After accepting defeat on Sunday night in front of his impassioned followers Sarkozy said he would never again run for the presidency.  A page has turned And according to right-wing French daily Le Figaro, Sarkozy, who had the lowest popularity ratings of all previous presidents, will be leaving the rough and tumble of French politics for good. Le Figaro, which is close to the Sarkozy camp, reported on Monday that the defeated president had gathered together the bigwigs of his UMP party to confirm the news of his departure. According to the newspaper, Sarkozy told the group, which included Prime Minister Francois Fillon, “for me, a page has turned.” He then told them he would not be putting himself forward as a candidate for June’s legislative elections. Sarkozy’s apparent intention to quit politics will come as no surprise to those close to him or even to journalists who have closely followed him during the exhausting election campaign. He first mooted the idea of leaving office in the event of a defeat to shocked reporters in an off the record briefing during a trip to French Guyana. “You won’t see me anymore,” he told reporters, who were unsure whether or not his words were just an election ploy to shock voters. Window still open But on Monday Sarkozy did joke to colleagues that he would be "renewing my membership card for the UMP and will pay my membership fee”. And not all commentators believe the 57-year-old will be able to resist the world of politics. Le Monde journalist David Revault d’Allonnes told France 24 that he would not be surprised if he made a return in the future. "He’s leaving a door open, maybe even a window he could climb through after breaking into the garden," said d'Allonnes. "Knowing him, it will be hard for him to exit the political game entirely.” If Sarkozy does retire from political life he will go the same way as former Prime Minister Lionel Jospin who suffered defeat in the 2002 presidential election race. After suffering the ignominy of being knocked out of the first round ballot by far-right candidate Jean-Marie le Pen, Jospin announced his immediate retirement from politics. Some political analysts believe the relatively fine margin of Sarkozy’s defeat leaves the door open for a possible return. “The outgoing president has not excluded himself from the game,” said Christophe de Voogd, a political historian at Sciences Po University in Paris. “It must be said that he has no reason to because losing with almost 49 percent of the votes in the second round is not the same as Jospin losing in the first. “The parallel is false and absurd,” de Voogd added. Plea for a quiet life After five years in the most high-profile position in France Sarkozy reportedly confided to his confidents that all he wanted now was a little bit of peace and quiet. “I am hoping to be able to live a normal life,” Le Figaro reported him as saying. “I lost the elections but journalists still prevent me from going anywhere alone. It’s impossible to go for lunch with the family so I hope they will leave me in peace.” But the former president’s marriage to supermodel-turned-signer-turned-actress Carla Bruni may mean he will never quite manage to step out of the limelight.
####2012 May 07####The victory of President Normal####It's the morning after the night before - and the French press are celebrating the victory of its first Socialist president in 17 years. There won't be much of a honeymoon though - we look at the challenges ahead.Liberation is celebrating the victory of their champion - but they also say he will have his work cut out trying to mend the deep divisions Sarkozyism has dug in France. Le Figaro resist the temptation to attack straight away - while Communist paper l'Humnaité has some very high expectations for the new president, which he'll find it hard to fulfil.
####2012 May 08####Worldwide reactions to the election of François Hollande####Foreign bloggers react to François Hollande’s election in France. The English national football team manager is widely mocked. And Harvard and the MIT offer free, online classes.Worldwide reactions to the election of François Hollande “A disaster for Europe”; this is how British blogger, John Ward regards the election of socialist, François Hollande as French president. John, a former local politician considers that the left’s arrival to power will hasten the end of the Euro and engender a political crisis on a European level for which Great Britain should be prepared. The choice of the French people should therefore have a decisive influence on the EU’s destiny. This is also the opinion of Kemal Derviş. In an article published on the site of the Brookings Institute of Washington, the economist believes that France’s refusal of austerity as a solution to the crisis could inspire other member states and encourage Europe to reinvent its social model. Meanwhile, Beninese journalist, Marcus Boni Teiga hopes that the Hollande presidency will open a new chapter in Franco-African relations. In this article published on the Slate Afrique site, he asserts that the black continent has been stigmatised over the last five years regarding questions such as immigration. And he expects the new French President to work towards respect for democracy, justice and human rights in Africa. On his blog, Chinese reporter, Zheng Ruolin also questions the Elysee’s future foreign policy, a theme which in his eyes, was very little touched upon during the campaign. He considers François Hollande to have little experience in the field and does not think therefore that he will bring in any sweeping changes, even if, in his opinion, the new President could soon make symbolic decisions, such as the withdrawal of French troops from Afghanistan.   Now trending on social networks The new French President’s name is also one of the most discussed subjects on social networks by French net users, since the announcement of his election on Sunday evening. And although many French people welcome the socialist candidate’s victory, and are eager to see the official transfer of power on May 15, some web users wonder nevertheless about the policies the head of state will adopt in the future. Questions touching upon varied subjects such as digital technology in France, management of the crisis or the name of the future Prime Minister, offering insights regarding some of the projects awaiting François Hollande.   England: web users and media mock Roy Hodgson The new English football team boss, Roy Hodgson, has been the subject of jibes since the official announcement of his nomination last week. Jokes about his speech impediments and his physique which are generating strong reactions online. The British daily paper “The Sun” was one of the first to openly mock the English manager by publishing on its cover last Tuesday, a fake quote by the English manager, altered to remind readers that he speaks with a lisp. A headline which was quick to ruffle feathers on the local web, with many net users considering it to be inappropriate. For many of them, the results Hodgson obtained as boss of various teams that he trained during his career, prove he deserves more respect and that in any case a simple speech impediment should not be focused upon. To express their disapproval of this headline which they consider cruel and to offer their support to the new manager, English net users are also urged to use the key words, “I support Roy” on Twitter. The aim being to show that the majority of football fans are behind the national team’s coach. A debate which has not prevented some jokers from continuing their online attack against Roy Hodgson. After mocking his speech impediment, web users enjoyed comparing the manager’s supposed physique to an owl. Many photo-montages and other drawings such as these, comparing Hodgson to a bird quickly appeared on the web and were widely diffused by English net users.   Harvard and MIT offer free online classes Two of America’s most prestigious universities are soon to offer free online classes. Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology have forged a 60 million dollar partnership to develop edX, an online learning platform. A site offering videos, discussion forums and virtual laboratories to registered net users. The first classes should be given from September and other universities are invited to jump on board. Video of the day CDZA, a trio of musicians offer this video baptised, “History of Whistling” a surprising retrospective of 100 years of whistle music. Twenty six well known pieces are performed by the three artists in just over three minutes and offer net users a veritable musical experience.  
####2012 May 08####The party's over (already)####There's no time for President Hollande to recover from the celebrations - his in-tray is already bulging with international summits, economic problems and policies he needs to get off the ground.Le Parisien has a chronology of François Hollande's top policy priorities - which goes on for 15 pages...but for Libération, while it might look intimidating, at least he can't do any worse than Sarkozy. Le Figaro says it's time to get real - and Hollande and Merkel are already at odds over Europe, while inside Libération they're focusing on how the Socialist Party can consolidate its success with a big majority at next month's parliamentary elections.
####2012 May 08####The Europeans are revolting####Will François Hollande's election mean the end of the Franco-German relationship? And what on earth is going on in Greece?The Atlantic says relations between Hollande and Merkel may be tough - and if Germany is not France's most important partner, that will mean the end of over 60 years of foreign policy. The Guardian says the wave of anti-austerity voter protest sweeping Europe could really mean the end of the single currency this time - and Paul Krugman writes in the New York Times that it's about time too. And what is going on in Greek politics? The Guardian tries to explain.
####2012 May 08####Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day####After a bitter campaign and a close presidential election, Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande appeared together at a WWII commemoration in Paris on Tuesday. But the divisions within an increasingly polarised France may not be so easy to reconcile.French President Nicolas Sarkozy and president-elect François Hollande appeared side by side in Paris on Tuesday for the first time since the pre-election debate on May 2 to commemorate the end of the Second World War. After a bitter election that culminated with the victory of the Socialist Hollande over the conservative Sarkozy, many in France looked to the event as a first opportunity to mend a divided nation. Hollande, who will be sworn in as France’s new president on May 15, and Sarkozy laid a wreath together at the flame of the unknown soldier under the Arc de Triomphe on the Champs-Elysées avenue in central Paris. May 8 is a national holiday in France, with schools and banks closed for the day. The commemoration ceremony was broadcast live on French public television. "That we can celebrate May 8 -- the sitting president, Nicolas Sarkozy, alongside the president just voted in by the French people -- I think it's a beautiful image that reflects what I think should be my objective the day after election day: reconciliation,” Hollande said on Monday. The Elysée Presidential Palace had earlier announced that Hollande had accepted Sarkozy’s invitation to participate in the annual commemoration. Tuesday’s collegial atmosphere stood in stark contrast to the last meeting between the two men. In a May 2 televised debate at the height of the campaign, Sarkozy and Hollande shook accusatory fingers at each other, with Sarkozy calling the left-wing a liar and Hollande ripping apart the incumbent’s record in office. The bitter debate was on par with the overall mood of the campaigns, in which French voters became increasingly polarized towards the political extremes. May 1 saw thousands of people hit the streets of Paris for competing rallies between the left-leaning unions, Sarkozy supporters, and members of France’s far-right. The May 6 presidential election was the second closest in French history, with Hollande edging out Sarkozy 51.62% to 48.38%. Reconciliatory words Conscious of the growing divide, the candidates began offering reconciliatory remarks as soon as election results appeared on Sunday evening. In his first victory speech in the central town of Tulle, Hollande recognized that millions of people had not voted for him and said he would also work for them. “We are not a France divided, we are one single France, all united in the same destiny,” Hollande told his supporters. Fighting to speak over an indignant crowd at his campaign headquarters in Paris, Sarkozy urged supporters to respect Hollande as president, even while adding a few last jabs at critics. “Let’s not give a bad example. I have greatly suffered because of the disrespect that was shown to my office. We will never be like those who fought against us. We love our country,” Sarkozy said. Nevertheless, some were sceptical that the country was ready to let the healing begin. France’s political left was hoping to deal a double blow to Sarkozy’s right-wing UMP party by winning back a majority in parliament in legislative elections next month. In an opinion pieced titled “The party is over” in the right-leaning daily Le Figaro, editor Pierre Rousselin said Europe’s debt woes and Germany’s unbending stance on austerity measures would be a rude wake-up call to Socialist candidates who think they can storm into parliament. The ruling UMP party has also laboured to show that it is still in fighting form despite Sarkozy's loss in the presidential poll. Its top brass gathered in Paris on Monday for an extraordinary meeting at the party’s headquarters. “We were punished because of the [financial] crisis and anti-sarkoism. It is very unjust. Hollande is legitimate, but he is not wanted,” shot Guillaume Peltier, a young UMP member and a MP candidate in the upcoming poll, after that meeting. On a day when France is set to reconcile, the looming parliamentary poll is a guarantee that politicians, as well as the French electorate, are headed towards a new fight.
####2012 May 09####Austerity kicked into touch?####With François Hollande about to take power here in France then, and the radical left trying to form a government in Greece - is this the end for pan-European austerity? We also look at the upcoming parliamentary elections - and the possible collapse of the UMP.Liberation says François Hollande should take credit for opposing austerity policy across the continent - and he's about to be proved right. Communist paper l'Humanité says austerity has finally had its day - and le Parisien says it begins at home, where Hollande has promised to cut his own salary - and that of France's highest paid public sector CEOs.
####2012 May 09####Waiting for Hollande: French foreign policy beyond Europe's borders####He won’t be untested on the world stage for long. No sooner will François Hollande be sworn in that he will jet off to Berlin, Washington, and Chicago for sit-downs and summits. On foreign policy, French presidents always seem to grapple with two shadows – that of their immediate predecessor and that of Fifth Republic founder Charles de Gaulle.Pierre CONESA. Former French Defence Ministry official; Author of "The manufacturing of an enemy, or how to kill with a clean conscience"; Judah GRUNSTEIN. Editor-in-Chief, World Politics Review; Vincent JAUVERT. Senior Correspondent, Le Nouvel Observateur; Annemie NEYTS-UYTTEBROECK. Belgian MEP (from Brussels). Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Christopher Davis. Watch the second part here.
####2012 May 09####Waiting for Hollande: French foreign policy beyond Europe's borders (part 2)####He won’t be untested on the world stage for long. No sooner will François Hollande be sworn in than he will jet off to Berlin, Washington, and Chicago for sit-downs and summits. On foreign policy, French presidents always seem to grapple with two shadows – that of their immediate predecessor and that of Fifth Republic founder Charles de Gaulle.Pierre CONESA. Former French Defence Ministry official; Author of "The manufacturing of an enemy, or how to kill with a clean conscience"; Judah GRUNSTEIN. Editor-in-Chief, World Politics Review; Vincent JAUVERT. Senior Correspondent, Le Nouvel Observateur; Annemie NEYTS-UYTTEBROECK. Belgian MEP (from Brussels). Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Christopher Davis. Watch the first part here.
####2012 May 09####François Hollande: portrait of a president####France has elected a left-wing president. It's goodbye to "bling bling" and hello to "Mr. Normal". The Socialist François Hollande promises to boost growth instead of making more cuts. Nicolas Sarkozy, meanwhile, will pack his bags and make way for Hollande at the Elysée Palace next week.
####2012 May 10####Greece - the first thorn in Hollande's side####Has Greece already ruined François Hollande's chances of building a European policy based around growth? And is the right-wing UMP party going to fall apart in the upcoming parliamentary elections?Le Figaro says Hollande's economic policies are suffering a serious reality check from the chaos in Greece - while even Libération recognises he's got his work cut out to create a workable growth policy. As for the outgoing government, they've got parliamentary elections to worry about - where the UMP will fall apart if last Sunday's voting patterns are repeated, says Le Parisien - and also rumours in Libération that François Fillon and Jean-François Copé are set to tear each other apart for the leadership.
####2012 May 10####Sarkozy government resigns ahead of power handover####The government of outgoing French President Nicolas Sarkozy stepped down on Thursday ahead of the inauguration of president-elect François Hollande on May 15. Hollande is due to reveal the new government line up once he enters office.REUTERS - The conservative government of outgoing French President Nicolas Sarkozy resigned on Thursday, paving the way for Socialist president-elect Francois Hollande to take office in a May 15 transfer of power ceremony. Prime Minister Francois Fillon delivered a letter of resignation to the presidential palace, although he will keep handling day-to-day government business until Hollande is sworn in on Tuesday, Sarkozy’s office said. Fillon, who took office on May 17, 2007, was the second-longest continually serving prime minister of modern France after George Pompidou, who headed the government from April 14, 1962 to July 10, 1968. Hollande is due to reveal his government line-up after he is sworn in. He is then due to travel to Berlin within hours to launch his push to balance German-imposed austerity policies in Europe with pro-growth elements. Hollande was elected on Sunday in a runoff vote with 51.6 percent of the vote to 48.4 percent for Sarkozy, whom voters punished for a stagnant economy, steadily rising unemployment and a showy and abrasive personal style. Sarkozy’s defeat leaves his conservative UMP party on a back foot ahead of parliamentary elections on June 10 and 17 with the far-right National Front eager to pick up some of its voters on the right.  
####2012 May 10####Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right####With France's Socialist Party tipped to wrestle away their parliamentary majority in June, the party of outgoing president Nicolas Sarkozy, the Union for a Popular Movement, has some lawmakers contemplating a taboo liaison with the far right.Faced with the likelihood of losing its majority in next month’s parliamentary elections, France’s centre-right Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) is being forced to do some soul-searching. Still stinging from defeat in Sunday’s presidential poll, many UMP lawmakers will likely have to make a difficult choice between honouring the established tradition of blocking the far-right in elections and the threat of losing their seats in parliament. France's parliamentary elections Will take place on June 10 and 17, in a two-round vote. All 577 seats in the lower-house National Assembly are being contested. With 305 seats, the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) is currently the majority party in parliament. The UMP has led France’s most important legislative body for the past 10 years. France’s political left is brimming with enthusiasm after Socialist Party candidate François Hollande won the May 6 presidential runoff in a tight and bitter race against incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy. Opinion surveys say Socialists should also easily win control of parliament’s lower-house National Assembly next month. According to a voter intention survey this week by French polling firm BVA, the Socialist Party and its allies on the left are on pace to win 46 percent of ballots on June 10. That score compared to 33 percent support for UMP candidates and 17 percent for the surging far-right National Front (FN) party, BVA said. Sarkozy, who plans to quit politics when he steps down on May 15, took a risk by adopting the far-right’s hardline rhetoric on EU borders, security and immigration during his campaign. While he failed to pick up enough far-right voters to win re-election, he managed to scare off centrist leader François Bayrou and other moderates. That has left UMP members with little room to block a left-wing takeover of parliament, other than turning to the FN. Respecting tradition In an interview with the conservative French magazine Valeurs actuelles, published on Thursday, FN leader Marine Le Pen said she was not closed to discussing election agreements with local UMP candidates. While the FN candidate said no alliance with the UMP was possible on the national level, she said “specific cases” would be considered. For many standing UMP parliamentarians, cutting a deal with the FN could be the only chance of keeping their jobs. According to right-wing daily Le Figaro, 115 conservative lawmakers, nearly half of the UMP members in parliament, face a serious risk of losing their seat. However, under former UMP leader Jacques Chirac in the 1990s and 2000s, the party adopted a policy of strictly rejecting agreements with the FN that would legitimise the far-right party. Jean-Yves Camus, a French researcher and expert on the far right, said isolated agreements between the right and far right have nevertheless existed. In mayoral elections in 1983 and regional elections in 1998, the far right succeeded in forging local alliances with the Rally for the Republic (RPR), the party that was transformed into the UMP in 2002. “All of the people that decided to ally themselves were sanctioned by the party bosses, but the taboo was already broken,” explained Camus. In what is largely being interpreted as a response to Le Pen’s comments, UMP party chief Jean-François Copé has called the party’s candidates into line, telling them “there will be no electoral alliances nor discussions with the FN leadership.” In an interview with Figaro Magazine on May 10, Copé warned that UMP candidates who transgressed would “face all the consequences at the national level”. Pragmatism or ideology? Despite Cope’s warning, the question of whether to open to the far right continues to haunt the UMP. French Defence Minister Gérard Longuet began to breach the closed door last week when he told RFI radio that Le Pen was “someone the [UMP] could speak to”. And on Thursday, conservative MP Jean-Paul Garraud was forced to explain himself over a memo he wrote after Sarkozy’s defeat: “A majority of voters from the UMP and the FN favour agreements. What is more important for France? Only this question must guide us. Should we be pragmatic or remain stuck in ideological holes?” penned Garraud, a representative from the south-west Gironde department. Copé has perhaps wider concerns when he continues to tow the party line. While the FN’s image has recently softened, a majority of French voters remain wary of the anti-immigration party. According to an opinion poll by Viavoice this week, 62 percent of respondents said they disapproved of electoral accords between the UMP and FN. Finding an answer to the FN question could prove crucial, not just for outcome of the parliamentary poll but also for the long-term future of the UMP. In an interview with AFP news agency, Brigitte Baréges, another conservative MP, has gone as far as evoking a split within the party. “For now, the UMP is holding to the idea that as long as we are facing the parliamentary polls we stay together… After, we’ll see. We’ll do head count and based on that maybe we can talk about how our party works,” said Baréges. The possibility of a UMP “implosion” has been on the lips of observers in the French media for weeks. Should they drop the reigns of parliament, and clash to determine who will take over after Sarkozy, that prospect seems all the more likely.  
####2012 May 11####Are French centrists losing their middle ground?####French centrist figurehead François Bayrou has launched a fresh appeal to moderate voters ahead of upcoming parliamentary elections in June. But for the political middle ground in France, support seems to be dwindling.Once a formidable political force in France, centrists are facing a bleak future. Centrist figurehead and MoDem party leader François Bayrou, who by his own admission performed dismally in France’s recent presidential poll, has launched a new movement to entice moderate voters ahead of parliamentary elections in June. But it seems fewer and fewer voters are looking to the middle ground for political alternatives. Bayrou, an outspoken Roman Catholic and former education minister in two conservative governments, said Thursday that he would campaign to create a center block of independent lawmakers in parliament. The 60-year-old went on to call on centrists on both the left and right to join his new “Centre for France” umbrella movement. The names of around 400 MP candidates belonging to the new “centre pole” will appear on May 10 ballots, with half of them coming from the ranks of his own MoDem party, Bayrou told a press conference in Paris. A representative from France’s southwest, the veteran politician will be defending his own parliamentary seat. “These candidates will have a single marching order: to be useful to France, so that it can escape its divisions. They will be men and women who do not belong to one camp, but men and women who belong to one country and one people,” Bayrou said. Indeed, France has recently experienced a widening political divide among voters. With 9% support, Bayrou finished the presidential race behind candidates from the far-right (18%) as well as a hard-left coalition (11%) allied with France’s Communist Party. According to an opinion poll by France’s BVA this week, the upcoming parliamentary election does not look any brighter for Bayrou. Only 4% of voters said they would vote for a MoDem candidate in June. Eric Bonnet, director at opinion pollsters BVA, said the figures project the MoDem’s “collapse”. The party’s projected score “is five points less than what Bayrou obtained 15 days ago [in the first round of France’s presidential election], and even four points less than the score obtained by the MoDem [in parliamentary elections] five years ago,” Bonnet pointed out. The lost electorate Bayrou has gone from being the triumphant third-place candidate of the 2007 presidential race, to a fifth-place non-story in 2012. Three and a half million fewer voters backed the MoDem hopeful in 2012 compared to the previous election. It’s been a long and slow demise for Bayrou, the successor of the once-powerful Union for French Democracy (UDF) party. In 1974, the UDF saw its candidate Valéry Giscard d'Estaing go all the way to the Elysée Palace. Under Bayrou’s watch the UDF evolved into the MoDem party and suffered painful breakups. In 2007, MP Hervé Morin split with the MoDem, taking three-quarters of the party’s parliamentary seats with him. In 2010, MoDem co-founder Corinne Lepage also jumped ship. Both Morin and Lepage launched unsuccessful bids to become presidential candidates in this year’s presidential election, and they will again challenge Bayrou in next month’s parliamentary poll. “I agree with Mr. Bayrou’s idea that there is a place for centrists in French politics, but unlike Mr. Bayrou I think centrists have to take clearer positions,” Lepage told FRANCE 24, adding that she would not join Bayrou’s new movement and that she was presenting her own counter list of 70 centrist candidates in the upcoming election. Despite Bayrou’s announcement that he would vote for Socialist Party candidate François Hollande’s in the presidential runoff four days before the poll, 41% of his supporters picked outgoing President Nicolas Sarkozy, while fewer, 29%, chose Hollande, according to an election day exit poll by Ipsos. Ball in the Left’s court Bayrou told reporters on Thursday that he rejected any ministerial positions for members of his MoDem party in president-elect François Hollande’s future Socialist government. But this declaration hardly sounded like a pledge to remain a neutral player. The centrist seems to have won no favour among Socialist Party decision makers, even after saying he would cast a runoff ballot for Hollande. On Wednesday, the Socialist camp said it would present a challenger to contest Bayrou’s parliamentary seat. He will also face off against a candidate from Sarkozy’s conservative UMP party, which considers Bayrou shattered a long standing entente between the political right and the centre when he publicly backed Hollande. Bayrou’s own predicament reflects a problem facing many centrists who feel rejected by both extremes. “I think the ball is in the Left’s court,” said Lepage. “Many centrists have shown that they are willing to work as part of a presidential majority with the left. But if there is no opening on the left to welcome them, centrists will be condemned to stay with the right.”
####2012 May 11####France's new first lady steps into the spotlight####Valérie Trierweiler, the partner of France's newly-elected president François Hollande, has vowed to continue her career as a TV presenter and journalist. Meet the former storyteller who is about to step into the role of France's first lady.Valérie Trierweiler may not be a former international supermodel, but she has recently generated as many headlines as the woman she is about to replace, Carla Bruni-Sarkozy. The soon-to-be new first lady of France has come under the scrutiny of the international press for her unmarried status, marking the first time an incoming French presidential couple are not legally man and wife. The 47-year-old Trierweiler has covered plenty of political campaigns as a journalist for the glossy weekly magazine Paris Match before becoming part of the story in 2005, when her friendship with François Hollande progressively “deepened”, as she put it in her own words. Clandestine beginnings Valérie Trierweiler in Tulle, before the first round of the French presidential election Hollande was then living with fellow Socialist Ségolène Royal, his partner of 25 years and the mother of his four children. Royal’s defeat in the 2007 presidential election precipitated the dissolution of her relation with Hollande. The clandestine affair with Trierweiler turned into an official romance in 2010, a few months before Hollande launched his own bid for the French presidency. The sentimental situation seemed to be appeased in early 2012, when the former mistress and the deceived partner joined forces behind Hollande to propel the Socialist candidate into the Elysée palace. Credited for masterminding Hollande’s weight-loss programme, Trierweiler attended electoral rallies from the front row and continued as an unofficial advisor from her office at the Socialist campaign headquarters. Madame “Normal” While outgoing president Nicolas Sarkozy made headlines with his whirlwind romance and wedding with a supermodel-turned-folksinger Bruni, the new presidential couple has vowed to keep a lower profile. Trierweiler has made clear that she would like to maintain her previous “working mom” lifestyle as much as possible. The twice-divorced mother of three has refused to give up her career, telling the French weekly Femme Actuelle that she didn't want the state to pay for the children she had before moving with François Hollande. Trierweiler’s independent-minded character is also visible in the way she dresses, according to women’s magazines. Contrary to France’s past first ladies, the journalist has never embraced the country’s notoriously extravagant fashions, preferring instead affordable brands matching her down-to-earth character. “For the moment, I dress in ready-to-wear. Lately it has been Georges Rech and Apostrophe, which are quality ready-to-wear brands that I have been wearing on television. I have never worn dresses by big-name fashion designers”, Trierweiler told British newspaper The Times. From ‘charming asset’ to Socialist Party bouncer As a woman known for speaking her mind, Trierweiler admitted that the prospect of being first lady was making her “a little uncomfortable”. The French public got a taste of François Hollande and Valérie Trierweiler Trierweiler’s boldness during the presidential campaign. When Paris Match put her on its cover abovethe headline “François Hollande’s charming asset” on March 8, International Women's Day, Trierweiler slammed her employer through her tweeter feed: “Bravo Paris Match for its sexism…my thoughts go out to all angry women”. More recently, Trierweiler didn’t hesitate to kick out a senior Socialist politician, Julien Dray, from a party at Hollande’s campaign headquarter. Dray has been blamed for endangering Hollande’s presidential bid by inviting senior Socialist officials to a birthday party where one-time potential candidate turned pariah Dominique Strauss-Kahn was present, only days before the crucial May 6 runoff. After years of reporting for a celebrity magazine, Trierweiler is keenly aware of the media pressure that will pile up on the new presidential couple. As she said after Hollande’s election and the publication of a special “souvenir” Paris Match issue, a political journalist stepping into the role of France’s new first lady feels like “the subject of one of my own stories”.   French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day
####2012 May 11####The World This Week - May 11th, 2012####François Hollande had better be prepared to hit the ground running. François Picard’s panel expects the next French president to be tested as soon as he’s sworn in, possibly over the looming threat of political and economic chaos in Greece. Also, we look at an historic debate in Egypt and ask whether Barack Obama is really that bold on gay marriage.Régis Le Sommier. Deputy Editor, Paris Match; Craig Copetas. Paris-based journalist. Author, "Bear Hunting with the Politburo"; Vivienne Walt. Paris correspondent, Time Magazine; Harold Hyman. Foreign affairs editor, BFM TV. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Paul Maakad. Watch the second part here.
####2012 May 11####The World This Week - May 11th, 2012 (part 2)####François Hollande had better be prepared to hit the ground running. François Picard’s panel expects the next French president to be tested as soon as he’s sworn in, possibly over the looming threat of political and economic chaos in Greece. Also, we look at an historic debate in Egypt and ask whether Barack Obama is really that bold on gay marriage.Régis Le Sommier. Deputy Editor, Paris Match; Craig Copetas. Paris-based journalist. Author, "Bear Hunting with the Politburo"; Vivienne Walt. Paris correspondent, Time Magazine; Harold Hyman. Foreign affairs editor, BFM TV. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Paul Maakad. Watch the first part here.
####2012 May 12####'Homeric battle' as leftist firebrand takes on Le Pen####French leftist leader Jean-Luc Mélenchon confirmed on Saturday that he would run for the same parliamentary seat as far-right leader Marine Le Pen, setting the stage for a showdown between radical forces at opposing ends of the political spectrum.France’s far-left leader and former presidential candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon has managed to return to the nation’s political spotlight by challenging his far-right nemesis Marine Le Pen on her home turf in next month's parliamentary elections. The Henin-Beaumont electoral district Population: 124,641 (1999 census) Henin-Beaumont is located near the Belgian border in northern France, a region blighted by high unemployment. Since its creation in 1986, the electoral district has always been represented by left-wing politicians. Marine Le Pen moved to Henin-Beaumont in 2007. She was elected as municipal councillor in March 2008.   The leftist firebrand, who finished in fourth position after the first round of the presidential poll, confirmed Saturday that he would run for a parliamentary seat in the northern town of Henin-Beaumont. He made no mystery about the fact that he chose this electoral district precisely because of Marine Le Pen’s strong political influence there, with close to one-third of voters having cast their presidential ballots for the far-right leader on April 22. “There will be a Homeric battle of sorts with extremely powerful symbolism, since [Henin-Beaumont] is the birthplace of France’s labour movement as well as the place where Le Pen, with her bravado, has decided to set up shop”, Mélenchon told France Info radio before announcing his candidacy. Fighting for political relevance The showdown between the champions of France’s far left and far right is shaping up to be a symbolic struggle for Mélenchon, whose future in national politics is now at stake. While Marine Le Pen’s legitimacy at the head of the anti-immigration National Front party is uncontested, Mélenchon has built his success on an alliance of notoriously rebellious leftist movements coalesced around the French Communist Party. François Hollande’s presidential victory threatens to deepen cracks inside Mélenchon’s Left Front Party, as the former senator made clear he would not join the incoming government - unlike several Communist officials, who said they were “ready” to accept ministerial positions. A head-to-head duel with Marine Le Pen would spectacularly confirm Mélenchon as the leader of the France’s far left. French Politics FRANCE Far-right leader makes TIME's 'most influential' list It would also prolong his campaign claim of being the far right's “sole” opponent. During the presidential campaign, mainstream party leaders tried to seduce the nearly 18 percent of the electorate who voted for Le Pen in the first round of the election. Mélenchon, who garnered just under 12 percent of the vote, hopes to broaden his appeal by portraying himself as an uncompromising bulwark against the National Front. No love lost Marine Le Pen is expected to visit Henin-Beaumont on Monday to take up the gauntlet. She has already dismissed Mélenchon’s candidacy on her turf, telling Europe 1 radio with more than a hint of irony: “He’s looking for a district where he can win… I thought it was anger [that motivated him], but I’m realising that in fact it was love”. Despite trading venomous barbs during the presidential campaign, the two leaders have met only once in a TV debate. After Mélenchon asked her a question about abortion, Le Pen refused to answer, claiming that she couldn’t debate with a man who called her “half insane”. Mélenchon promptly hit back, saying that he was still keen to debate with the remaining “sane half" of Le Pen. FRANCE ELECTIONS 2012 Left-wing candidate rallies thousands for Bastille march This time, the far-right heiress will not be able to dodge Mélenchon’s challenge without losing face. The showdown promises to be explosive, with both leaders ready to use fierce rhetoric to conquer Henin-Beaumont’s working-class electorate. Le Pen took home 31 percent of the Henin-Beaumont vote compared with Mélenchon's 14.85 percent in the presidential election's first round. Still, the far-left leader is hoping that a right-wing electorate split between Le Pen’s Front National and the outgoing ruling UMP party will bring him victory there on June 10.    French elections 2012 FRANCE Sarkozy allies mull risky entente with far right FRANCE A diplomatic headache for unmarried Hollande? FRANCE Hollande, Sarkozy put aside rivalry to mark VE day
####2012 May 12####Nicolas Sarkozy: barred or not?####The former French president is caught up in a legal wrangle about whether he can practice at the bar and also take up a seat in France's Constitutional Court. That's the focus for this edition of Media Watch, Friday 11th March 2012.
####2012 May 14####France ushers in new era with understated Hollande####François Hollande won France’s presidential election by vowing to break with predecessor’s Nicolas Sarkozy’s much criticized flashiness and plans for fiscal austerity. Inauguration day gives Hollande his first chance to deliver on those promises.France’s president-elect François Hollande takes over the reins of power on Tuesday and is expected to waste no time in putting his stamp on the presidency. His first day at the office will begin with his inauguration ceremony in Paris and end in Berlin with what could be a tense dinner date with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Hollande, a Socialist, will use both occasions to mark the distinction between him and his right-wing predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy. Having campaigned on a promise of being a “normal” president, he will be sworn into power in an appropriately ‘sober’ ceremony that is expected to set tone for his five-year term in office. No family affair During his time at the Elysée, Nicolas Sarkozy, who became known as the ‘bling-bling’ president, was often criticised for riding roughshod over the traditions of the French presidency. Hollande's first day time table 10am – Private meeting with Nicolas Sarkozy at the Elysée Palace 10.45am – Hollande is sworn in as the seventh president of the fifth republic when he makes his inauguration address 11.15am – Hollande heads up the Champs Elysée in an open top classic Citroen car where he will pay homage at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier 12.30pm - The president dines with Socialist Party bigwigs at the Elysée Palace 1.45pm – Hollande gives a speech at the Tuileries in front of the statue of Jules Ferry before a visit to the Marie Curie Institute 3pm – Hollande heads off to the Hôtel de Ville where he will be greeted by the Mayor of Paris Bertrand Delanoë. 4pm – Hollande flies to Berlin for a meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel   Those accusations began on the day of his own inauguration ceremony in 2007 when Sarkozy broke with tradition by choosing to put his family at the centre of the ritual. In front of millions of TV viewers, Sarkozy’s then wife Cecilia, whose relationship with the president was already on its last legs, made a grand entrance accompanied by their five children, in a scene many considered more akin to the more casual style of US presidential inaugurations. But neither Hollande's children nor those of his partner Valerie Trierweiler were due to be present at Tuesday's ceremony. Ségolène Royal, former partner of Hollande and mother of his four children, defended the decision to have a family-free service. “My children do not wish to be present,” said the 2007 presidential runner-up. “It’s François Hollande who was elected president of the republic, not his family, friends or partner.” Hollande’s children may not be present, but he will be surrounded by members of his political family – the Socialist Party, of which he has been a member for 33 years. Traditions observed, figures honoured Hollande’s first day in the country’s top job will begin at the leisurely time of 10am when he will be welcomed at the Elysée Palace by Sarkozy for a brief meeting behind closed doors. The 20-minute meeting is not simply for Sarkozy to show Hollande around his new home but to handover various sensitive dossiers as well as the secret codes for the country’s nuclear weapons. Hollande will then be formally sworn into his new job when he reads his inauguration address, with a 21-cannon salute officially marking the handover of power. After visiting the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the Arc de Triomphe, Hollande will continue the tradition of the inauguration day by paying homage to symbolic figures of French history. Having promised to put youth and education at the heart of his mandate, the new president has chosen to honour the 19th century education reformer Jules Ferry, who is considered the father of France’s free and secular education system. Hollande will also pay homage to Polish-born scientist Marie Curie, a two-time Nobel Prize winner, in what many see as the new president making a point to those on the right who had campaigned for less immigration. Vincent Peillon, who has been mentioned as a possible education minister, said Curie was chosen because she “was welcomed to France and became part of its proud community”. Meeting with Merkel Hollande, who has never before held a government post, will then begin his new job in earnest once the ceremony is over. His first significant task will be to name his prime minister. He looks set to snub Socialist Party leader Martine Aubry, who finished second behind Hollande in last year’s party primaries. Jean-Marc Ayrault, the mayor of Nantes and moderate leader of the Socialists in parliament, is seen as a safer choice. How Hollande won the race FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Hollande's victory: The tortoise who beat the hare France’s new president will then fly to Berlin for a much-hyped first meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Hollande will be hoping his diplomatic skills, built up through years of dealing with a fractured Socialist Party, can be transferred to the international arena. Merkel openly supported Sarkozy during the presidential campaign and their close working relationship, especially in thrashing out the eurozone’s fiscal treaty, led to the pair being dubbed “Merkozy”. In contrast Hollande and Merkel are already being referred to jokingly as ‘MerDe’ by sections of the international media who believe the duo are set for a rocky relationship. That union will begin with a “working dinner” during which Hollande is expected to try and crack Merkel’s resistance to his wishes to renegotiate the EU fiscal pact, his predecessor was so proud of. Hollande wants the treaty to include growth measures but his German counterpart has already poured cold water on the idea by stating that the pact is not up for renegotiation. “There will be a hand-shake, we will get to know each other and we will have a chance to speak frankly about the future of Europe,” Hollande said in an interview with France 2 on the eve of his visit to Germany. Given an immediate opportunity to make his mark, Hollande may well find his first day at the helm is anything but normal.
####2012 May 14####'The Pas-de-Calais does not belong to Mrs. Le Pen'####Jean-Luc Mélenchon takes his fight with Marine Le Pen to her home turf - while François Hollande faces his moment of truth as he prepares to meet Angela Merkel.Libération puts the parliamentary rematch between Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Marine Le Pen on its front page - but they essentially see this run as a vanity project. Le Figaro, Le Parisien and Les Echos all have President Hollande's meeting with Merkel on their front pages - as he prepares for a marathon week.
####2012 May 15####François Hollande sworn in as French president####François Hollande was officially sworn in as the seventh president of France's Fifth Republic in a low-key ceremony at the Elysée Palace on Tuesday, where he reiterated his vow to turn the page on eurozone austerity.AFP - Francois Hollande was sworn in as France's first Socialist president since 1995 on Tuesday at a solemn ceremony overshadowed by the debt crisis threatening to unravel the eurozone. After brief ceremonies in Paris, the 57-year-old career politician was to dash to Berlin to confront Chancellor Angela Merkel over their very different visions as to how to save the single currency bloc. "Power will be exercised at the summit of the state with dignity and simplicity," Hollande declared in an inaugural address to Socialist leaders, trade unionists, military officers, churchmen and officials. "Europe needs plans. It needs solidarity. It needs growth," he said, renewing his vow to turn the page on austerity and invest for the future, and implicitly underlining his differences with Merkel. "To our partners I will propose a new pact that links a necessary reduction in public debt with indispensable economic stimulus," he said. "And I will tell them of our continent's need in such an unstable world to protect not only its values but its interests." Hollande was also to make the much-anticipated announcement of who will lead his government as prime minister, with Jean-Marc Ayrault, the head of the Socialists' parliamentary bloc, tipped as favourite. The new president was welcomed to the Elysee Palace by his predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy, who led him to the presidential office for a private head-to-head and to hand over the codes to France's nuclear arsenal. Then Hollande ushered Sarkozy to his car for a final farewell, outgoing first lady Carla Bruni exchanging kisses with successor Hollande's partner Valerie Trierweiler, elegant in a dark dress and vertiginous heels. Hollande then signed the notice of formal handover of power and headed back in to the palace ballroom. No foreign heads of state were invited to what was a low-key ceremony for a post of such importance, leader of the world's fifth great power. After the swearing in, Hollande rode up the Champs Elysees to the Arc de Triomphe in an open-topped Citroen DS5 hybrid, waving to the crowd. But the real work was to begin later in the afternoon, when Hollande was to fly to Berlin from an airbase north of Paris, for tense talks with Merkel, the leader of Europe's biggest economy and France's key ally. Merkel was a Sarkozy ally and the architect of the European Union's fiscal austerity drive. Hollande opposed the speed and depth of the cutbacks demanded by Berlin, and wants to renegotiate the eurozone fiscal pact. Germany is committed to budgetary discipline, and Merkel has repeatedly insisted since Hollande's election that the pact, signed by 25 of the 27 EU countries and already ratified in some, is not open to renegotiation. But observers say there is room for compromise, with Hollande likely to agree to additional stimulus measures without a rewrite of the pact. And with political paralysis in Greece raising the spectre of the country being forced from the eurozone, the heads of Europe's two largest economies will be keen to reassure worried markets they can work together. New figures released Tuesday showed France's economy still stagnant, with official statistics agency INSEE saying it recorded no growth in the first quarter of 2012. The agency also revised downward the growth figure for the fourth quarter of 2011, to 0.1% from 0.2%, while maintaining that the economy grew by 1.7 percent overall in 2011. Before he heads to Berlin, Hollande's first order of business will be to nominate a prime minister, who will be tasked with forming a government before a first cabinet session likely on Thursday. Ayrault, a 62-year-old longtime Hollande ally, is considered first in line for the job, but other names are circulating. Once the cabinet is named, the focus will move to the Socialists' campaign to win a parliamentary majority in June's legislative elections -- a key test for the party after Hollande's win. After the talks with Merkel, Hollande heads to the United States where he is to meet President Barack Obama at the White House on Friday ahead of back-to-back G8 then NATO summits.
####2012 May 15####Hollande and Merkel vow to seek growth for Europe####Hours after being sworn in as France’s new head of state on Tuesday, François Hollande capped a marathon first day as French president with a trip to Berlin, where he and Chancellor Angela Merkel vowed to work together to drag Europe out of crisis.Newly inaugurated French President François Hollande held talks in Berlin with German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Tuesday, just hours after being sworn in as the seventh president of France's Fifth Republic. His first official trip as head of state offered Hollande a first taste of international diplomacy for a summit that had been much hyped in the media. As one of his pre-election promises Hollande had vowed to renegotiate the EU fiscal pact to include growth-boosting measures and allow for a loosening of the purse strings. FRANCE'S NEW PRIME MINISTER FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Hollande names longtime ally Ayrault as prime minister But Merkel, who had openly sided with incumbent president Nicolas Sarkozy during the campaign, had already poured cold water on that idea, warning that Europe’s austerity cure was not negotiable. Tuesday’s summit was billed as the first of many predicted clashes between the two leaders, but in a joint press conference they were eager to present a united front. Hollande said Germany and France would “put all ideas and all proposals on the table” to generate economic growth in Europe, an issue on which Merkel claimed she and Hollande had “points in common”. "Everything has to be looked at anew by everyone," insisted Hollande. Both leaders also reaffirmed their desire for Greece to stay in the eurozone and hoped Greek voters would show this when the country holds a rerun of the recent parliamentary elections on June 17. “I hope that we can say to the Greeks that Europe is ready to add measures to help growth and support economic activity so that there is a return to growth in Greece,” Hollande said. The two leaders agreed the two countries will present their ideas for how to foster economic growth when they meet again on May 23 and then at a Council of Europe summit at the end of June. "It will be very important that Germany and France present their ideas together at this summit," Merkel said. FRANCE 24’s Europe editor Christophe Robeet said the duo’s differences of opinion were evident despite the united front they presented. “Hollande seemed more relaxed in his role to me and was quite self-confident. At times Merkel looked puzzled when he spoke and I am not sure she appreciated everything he said,” Robeet said. Hollande’s trip to Berlin had been briefly delayed when his plane was forced to turn back to Paris for safety reasons after apparently being struck by lightning en route. The new president quickly swapped aircrafts for "safety concerns" and set off once again for the German capital. The duo's first face to face talks eventually got underway more than an hour later than planned and were due to be followed by what had been labelled a “working dinner”. Inauguration day   Hollande had arrived at the Elysée Palace at 10am where he was greeted by the man he defeated to become president of France just 10 days ago.   Nicolas Sarkozy ushered his successor into a private chamber for a brief handover where sensitive dossiers and the country’s nuclear codes were formally entrusted to the new head of state.   Hollande’s official swearing-in ceremony was a swift low-key service after which he was joined by his partner, the journalist Valérie Trierweiler.   Once all the necessary papers had been signed Hollande was driven up the Champs Elysées in an open-topped classic Citreon car accompanied by a troop of guards on horseback.   Despite the stormy weather a rain-soaked Hollande remained upbeat, waving and smiling to the crowds who had lined the famous avenue. TROUBLE AHEAD FRANCE Economic woes mean no honeymoon for Hollande   He then laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier underneath the Arc de Triomphe before continuing the traditions of inauguration day by paying homage to two significant figures of French history.   At the Tuileries Gardens the new president honoured the19th century education reformer Jules Ferry, who is considered the father of France’s free and secular education system.   Hollande then paid homage to Polish-born scientist Marie Curie, a two-time Nobel Prize winner at the Marie Curie Institute in Paris’ fifth arrondissement.   “Marie Curie was born in Poland but welcomed by France,’ Hollande said, in a pointed attack on those on the political right who had campaign on an anti-immigration agenda.   Then as the sun came out Hollande continued his journey around the French capital by heading to the Hôtel de Ville on the banks of the river Seine where the mayor of Paris Bertrand Delanoë and around 400 invited guests gave him a standing ovation.   One of those guests, Jean-Marc Ayrault, was officially named as the new French prime minister at around 5pm, in what proved to be the president’s first significant decision of his presidency.
####2012 May 15####Lightning strikes Hollande's plane on first official trip####Hours after being sworn in as the new French president on Tuesday, François Hollande's trip to Berlin for talks with his German counterpart was briefly delayed when his plane was forced to turn back after being struck by lightning.AP - Socialist Francois Hollande took over as France’s president Tuesday and jetted off to Berlin hours later for talks on Europe’s debt crisis -- only to have his plane struck by lightning. No one was hurt. It was a startling beginning for a man who promised to be a more “normal” president, and less flashy than his predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy, who was ousted by voters after a single term for his handling of a stagnant economy plagued by joblessness. After a succession of rain-drenched and pomp-filled ceremonial inauguration events, Hollande took off in a Falcon 7X aircraft for Berlin. The plane was hit by lightning shortly afterward, and returned to the Villacoublay air base outside Paris as a precaution for inspection, Defense Ministry spokesman Gerard Gachet said. Defense officials say the president and his entourage were transferred to another aircraft, a Falcon 900, and left shortly thereafter. That made Hollande about an hour and a half late for his first meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. TROUBLE AHEAD FRANCE Economic woes mean no honeymoon for Hollande Hollande was following a postwar custom for new French leaders to reach out to their German counterparts to solidify European unity. Right before leaving for Berlin, Hollande named a moderate, German-friendly member of his Socialist party, Jean-Marc Ayrault, as his prime minster. The new French president and Merkel are in different camps when it comes to solving Europe’s debt crisis. While new figures Tuesday showed the 17-nation eurozone has avoided a new recession, thanks largely to Germany, political turmoil in Greece was reviving fears about the fate of their shared euro currency. Hollande, elected May 6 as France’s first Socialist president since Francois Mitterrand left office in 1995, rode to the presidency on a wave of resurgent leftist sentiment amid Europe’s debt woes and protests against capitalism around the world. The 57-year-old displayed his populist touch in between Tuesday’s ceremonies, stopping for handshakes -- and even a kiss -- with adoring fans. Arriving Tuesday morning at the 18th-century Elysee Palace, the traditional residence of French presidents, Hollande was greeted by Sarkozy on the red-carpeted steps. The two held a 40-minute private meeting that is traditionally the moment when the outgoing president hands over the codes to France’s nuclear arsenal. Hollande was declared president after the head of the constitutional court read out the final results of the May 6 election. The new president immediately acknowledged the challenges he inherits: “a massive debt, weak growth, high unemployment, degraded competitiveness, and a Europe that is struggling to come out of crisis.” In his speech, Hollande promised to fight financial speculation and “open a new path” in Europe. He has pushed back against a European budget-cutting pact championed by Merkel and Sarkozy. “To overcome the crisis that is hitting it, Europe needs plans. It needs solidarity. It needs growth. To our partners, I will propose a new pact that will tie the necessary reduction of public debt with the indispensable stimulus of the economy,” he said. Hollande also pledged to bring “dignity and simplicity” to the presidential role -- something voters felt that Sarkozy did not always do. The French mood is glum. Many voters looked to the inauguration as a rare moment of national pride and to Hollande’s presidency as a new opportunity to make things better. Earlier Tuesday, the state statistics agency released new figures showing that the French economy had failed to grow in the first quarter. Some economists predict a contraction ahead, which would complicate Hollande’s promises to rein in the deficit. World markets and other European leaders will be watching closely to see whether and how Hollande follows through on his campaign promises, such as pulling French troops out of Afghanistan, freezing gasoline prices and hiking taxes on the rich. Observers expect that once he settles into the presidency, he’s likely to fall back into the moderate consensus-building that has characterized his career. Crucial to Hollande’s presidency will be his relationship with Merkel, the German chancellor. The announcement of lawmaker Ayrault (ay-ROW) as prime minister may well prove an advantage for this relationship. Ayrault, who leads the Socialists in Parliament, is a German speaker and a former teacher of the language of Goethe. The 62-year-old Ayrault and Hollande are said to be very close. After the Berlin visit, Hollande heads later this week to the United States to meet President Barack Obama and attend summits of the Group of Eight and NATO. In the ceremony Tuesday, Hollande received the insignia of the Grand Croix from the hands of Gen. Jean-Louis Georgelin, who heads the prestigious Legion of Honor, and the necklace of the Great Master of the Order of the Legion of Honor. Each linked medallion of the necklace bears the name of a president, with Hollande’s name recently added. Hollande shook hands with many of the hundreds at the ceremony, then reviewed troops in the palace gardens. Following tradition, 21 shots were fired from cannons at the Invalides, a domed complex on the opposite side of the Seine River that holds Napoleon’s tomb. Rain started pouring down on the famed Champs-Elysees avenue as Hollande rode up its center, standing in the sunroof of his hybrid Citroen DS5, trailed by dozens of Republican Guardsmen on horseback and motorcycle. His suit was visibly drenched within moments. He then headed for the Arc de Triomphe, and its monument to the unknown soldier.
####2012 May 15####Hollande names longtime ally Ayrault as prime minister####Jean-Marc Ayrault, the leader of the Socialist Party in parliament and the mayor of Nantes, was named France's new prime minister on Tuesday by François Hollande. Ayrault is a longtime ally of the new president and a known moderate.France’s new president, François Hollande, appointed veteran lawmaker Jean-Marc Ayrault as his prime minister on Tuesday, hours after being sworn in to the country's top job. Ayrault, 62, is the mayor of the northwest city of Nantes and a longtime leader of the Socialist Party in parliament. A close ally of newly elected French President François Hollande for the past 15 years, he was seen as more moderate in his views than other candidates for the post, including Socialist Party leader Martine Aubry. Hollande’s new cabinet Secretary general:    Pierre-René Lemas Chief of staff:    General Benoît Puga Cabinet director:    Sylvie Hubac Political adviser:    Aquilino Morelle   In the French executive branch, which does not include a vice president, the prime minister heads all other government ministries, oversees domestic affairs and is second only to the president in importance. Hollande faithful Hollande had already dropped heavy hints that he would pick Ayrault, notably when he declared at an April 27 press conference in the central city of Bourges that he would appoint a “a well-known Socialist familiar with parliament” and someone with whom he shared “good relations”. Indeed, Ayrault and Hollande have been close collaborators in parliament, often sitting side by side in the lower-house National Assembly. In 1997, when Ayrault first became president of the Socialist group in parliament, Hollande became their party’s first secretary on the national level. Ayrault was also among the first Socialist heavyweights to back Hollande’s bid for the party’s presidential nomination. “I have a real friendship with François, who is a reformer on the left,” Ayrault explained during the Socialist Party’s primaries in late 2011. No experience of government The French media say Ayrault’s strengths include his fluency in German and his knowledge of politics in Berlin. A former German teacher, the MP maintains good relations with Sigmar Gabriel, the leader of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), Germany’s main opposition party. Ayrault’s political entourage in Nantes describe a mild-mannered man who knows how to take a leadership role. He has also built a reputation as a politician who ardently defends arts and culture. A lack of experience with ministerial portfolios, however, could prove to be a problem – a criticism that Hollande has also repeatedly faced. And like Hollande, Ayrault has been criticised by commentators for lacking charisma. Analysts foresee possible clashes with Green Party leaders, who could be called on by Hollande to fill cabinet posts. An airport project in Nantes championed by Ayrault, for example, is fiercely opposed by environmentalists.  
####2012 May 16####World ponders Hollande's role on international stage####Moments after his first encounter with German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Tuesday, France’s new president, François Hollande, was already being sized up by the international press.Foreign observers are beginning to carve out an image of French President François Hollande in the wake of his election victory, but have so far struggled to define a man who has had little visibility outside his own country. After he secured the Socialist Party’s presidential nomination in October 2011, Hollande quickly reached for his passport, organising trips to Madrid, Rome, Berlin and London. His sudden travel fever – limited, however, to the safe borders of Europe – seemed to respond to the persistent criticism from the right: a lack of experience, especially on the international stage. A career politician, Hollande joined the Socialist Party in 1979. He juggled local and regional political offices in central France throughout most of the 1980s and 1990s, until he became the leader of the party in 1997. He would hold the position for the next 11 years, without ever serving as a minister. Hollande has unconvincingly claimed that his job as party chief allowed him to “travel around the world” to meet sister political parties. His campaign spokesmen and entourage have been forced to argue that other prominent leaders, such as UK Prime Minister David Cameron and US President Barack Obama, also entered office with little diplomatic experience under their belts. Hollande vs Sarkozy Much of the commentary from abroad has focused on comparisons between Hollande and his predecessor, Nicolas Sarkozy. “Hollande certainly comes across as more normal than the hyperactive Sarkozy, whose twitches, self-aggrandisement and temper tantrums made him a favourite of political sketchwriters across the globe,” wrote the UK’s Daily Mail. FRANCE'S NEW PRIME MINISTER FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Hollande names longtime ally Ayrault as prime minister According to Maya Mirchandani, an editor with NDTV in New Delhi, French politics rarely gets much airtime in India. Coverage of Hollande in her country has often been related to the differences – personal and professional – between him and Sarkozy. Many in India wanted to know who would be replacing Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, a former model, as France’s first lady, Mirchandani told FRANCE 24. While the UK weekly The Economist was not ready to applaud Hollande’s victory, which the publication has said threatens the future of Franco-German relations, it portrayed Hollande as a more level-headed statesman. “His unpretentious calm may suit the chancellor [Angela Merkel] better than the erratic grandstanding of Mr Sarkozy,” The Economist wrote. Hollande vs Merkel Initial impressions of Hollande across the globe seemed to ride on his budding relationship with Chancellor Merkel, who notoriously sided with Sarkozy in the recent election. While some thought Hollande was capable of charming his German counterpart, others thought he would be sidelined by Merkel’s commanding presence on the continent. Having previously warned that Hollande’s “deep anti-business attitude” was “bad for his country and Europe,” The Economist has recently struck a more conciliatory note. On May 12 the British weekly argued that Hollande could save Europe by convincing Merkel to back modest investment measures and the issuing of Eurobonds. France's first lady FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 France's new first lady steps into the spotlight Other commentators thought Hollande stood no chance of outmanoeuvring Merkel, who has repeatedly dismissed suggestions – backed by Hollande – that the eurozone’s new fiscal treaty might be amended to make room for growth-boosting measures. “While Merkel continues to rule in Berlin, the hopes of Hollande and others will crash into a wall of cuts and deficit reduction,” wrote Miguel Angle Villena in the leading Spanish daily El Pais. A political cartoon in the New York Times seemed to deliver a similar verdict. Portrayed as a bright-eyed newcomer eager to cooperate, Hollande is greeted at the door by Merkel, who addresses him as her new “pupil” and proceeds to give him some hard “Austerity” lessons. Big shoes to fill Other opinion leaders downplayed Hollande’s victory and raised questions about his ability to fill the big political shoes he has inherited. “The man about whom former president Jacques Chirac said long ago, ‘More people have heard of Mitterrand's Labrador than of François Hollande,’ now stands in a line with Louis XIV, Napoleon and General de Gaulle,” wrote the leading German daily Der Spiegel. TROUBLE AHEAD FRANCE Economic woes mean no honeymoon for Hollande In the Israeli newspaper Haaretz, Corinne Mellul said Hollande was uncharismatic and unrealistic. “His platform promises a tidal wave of social expenditure that only manna from heaven could fund,” Mellul wrote, adding that “In multiple ways, Sarkozy handed him a victory.” Clovis Rossi, an editorialist for Brazil’s Folha de Sao Paulo, said inauguration day was a wake-up call to Hollande. “When he arrived at the Elysée Palace, the ‘normal’ Hollande was suddenly devoured by the grandeur of old France,” Rossi wrote. In the coming days the international press will have ample opportunity to dissect Hollande. France’s new president will travel to the United States for G8 and NATO meetings over the weekend, and to Brussels on May 23 for a specially convened summit of EU leaders.  
####2012 May 16####Ayrault takes over as new French prime minister####Jean-Marc Ayrault (right), the Socialist Party's parliamentary leader and a longtime ally of France's new president, officially took over from François Fillon (left) as prime minister during a swearing-in ceremony in Paris on Wednesday.AFP - French President Francois Hollande's new prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, arrived at the Matignon Palace in Paris on his first day of work Wednesday and began drawing up a cabinet list. Ayrault, a 62-year-old former German teacher, lawmaker and longtime Hollande ally, arrived with his wife Brigitte Terrien and said farewell to former president Nicolas Sarkozy's premier Francois Fillon before getting to work. Like Hollande, who on Tuesday became France's first Socialist president since 1995, Ayrault has never previously held a ministerial post, but he is mayor of Nantes, a veteran parliamentarian and seen as a consensus builder. FRANCE 24 PORTRAIT FRANCE 24 Jean-Marc Ayrault, France's new prime minister. He was named to the job of prime minister over other potential candidates, including Socialist Party leader and former labour minister Martine Aubry, who reportedly refused to join the cabinet if she did not get the top job. One of her aides told the Le Monde newspaper that Aubry, who is mayor of the northern city of Lille, saw "no sense" in being a member of Hollande's cabinet if she were not to be the prime minister. Hollande has been criticised for naming Ayrault, who has a conviction for favouritism in awarding a local government contract, with opponents noting that as candidate he promised not to work with anyone who had a criminal record. "I will not have around me people who have been tried and convicted," Hollande said while on the presidential campaign trail on April 14. "You can remind me of this statement if I fail to keep my word." In 1997, after he took over as head of the Socialists in parliament, Ayrault was convicted on favouritism charges for having awarded a municipal printing contract in Nantes to a businessman with links to the party. Hollande’s new cabinet Secretary general:    Pierre-René Lemas Chief of staff:    General Benoît Puga Cabinet director:    Sylvie Hubac Political adviser:    Aquilino Morelle   He was given a six-month suspended sentence and ordered to pay a 30,000 franc (4,500 euro/$5,900) fine, but the conviction was officially wiped from the record in 2007. Nevertheless, Ayrault's track record of keeping parliament's often-unruly bloc of Socialists in line fits with Hollande's vow to seek a consensus-building government. And Ayrault's background as a Germanophile and German-language speaker should also prove useful in building ties with France's powerful neighbour and in tackling Hollande's goal of reshaping Europe's economic policies. Unlike many of his peers, Ayrault did not attend the elite Paris schools that produce so many of the country's leaders and he has criticised the "elitism and condescension" of the capital's political class. Much like Hollande, Ayrault has a reputation as a calm consensus-builder and moderate, somewhat lacking in charisma but an operator within the party. He supported Hollande during the US-style primary that saw him defeat Aubry for the party's nomination and then played a prominent role as an advisor to Hollande during his campaign.  
####2012 May 16####New Socialist cabinet takes power in France####The members of French President François Hollande's new cabinet were announced on Wednesday, including Pierre Moscovici as finance minister and former premier Laurent Fabius (pictured) as the minister of foreign affairs.France unveiled President Francois Hollande's new government on Wednesday, with exactly half of the posts going to women – a promise the new head of state had made during his campaign. Not counting the prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, who was appointed on Tuesday, the cabinet consists of 34 members, two more than the outgoing cabinet that served under conservative Nicolas Sarkozy. There was some concern over the news that Martine Aubry, Hollande’s former party rival and one of the Socialist Party’s most experienced women, would not join the cabinet after she was declined the prime ministerial position. There was also some criticism over the top-level posts being given to men, despite the cabinet being France’s first to reach gender parity. Former prime minister Laurent Fabius, 65, who campaigned against the European Constitutional Treaty in 2005, was handed the role of foreign affairs minister, sparking concern among some Europhiles. Pierre Rousselin, senior editor at French conservative daily Le Figaro, told FRANCE 24 that while the French might find him a “strange choice and a potential problem for Europe,” he may also turn out to be an advantage by gaining support from the majority of French people who voted “no” in the bitterly divisive 2005 referendum. There was also some surprise over the appointment of Pierre Moscovici, 54, as finance minister. Moscovici was very close to Dominique Strauss-Kahn before becoming Hollande’s campaign manager. His post was expected to go to Hollande’s long term ally, Michel Sapin, who was instead named as labour minister. Jean-Yves Le Drian, a 64-year-old local politician from Brittany, was named defence minister, while Manuel Valls, a free-market moderniser and a moderate within the Socialist Party, was named interior minister. Arnaud Montebourg, a 49-year-old from the left wing of the Socialist party, was put in charge of growth and industry. Women in power Christiane Taubira, from French Guiana, was named justice minister, making her the highest-ranking woman in the new cabinet. Outspoken and charismatic, the 60-year-old lawmaker authored a French law in 2001 making slavery a crime against humanity. She was the first black woman to run for president in 2002. Other women who received cabinet posts include Marisol Touraine, minister for health and social affairs; housing minister Cecile Duflot, who is also the leader of the Green party; and several women who helped run Hollande’s presidential campaign, including Aurelie Filipetti, as culture minister, and Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, in charge of women's rights, one of two new cabinet posts. She will also act as government spokesperson. Anne-Cécile Mailfert, a gender equality activist from women’s rights group Osez le Féminisme (Dare to be feminist), told FRANCE 24 that she felt that there was a “clear divide” between women and men on the cabinet, with women receiving less important roles, save for minister of justice. “This is a little bit disappointing,” she said, though recognising the numerical parity as a “positive example” for society. The first cabinet session will take place on Thursday at 13.00pm Paris time. THE FACES OF FRANCE'S NEW GOVERNMENT Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, minister of women’s rights and government spokesperson Moroccan-born Rhône councillor Najat Vallaud-Belkacem served as a spokesperson for both Ségolène Royal in 2007 and François Hollande in 2012. Laurent Fabius, minister of foreign affairs Laurent Fabius has been a fixture of French politics for the past 30 years. In 1984, at the age of 37, he became France's youngest-ever prime minister. Eight times elected to parliament, he has also served as finance minister and speaker of France's National Assembly. Pierre Moscovici, minister of finance A former supporter of shamed Socialist Dominique Strauss-Kahn, Pierre Moscovici, 54, served as minister for european affairs under Lionel Jospin’s government between 1997 and 2002. He started his political career as a member of the Revolutionary Communist League (LCR). Nicole Bricq, minister of environment A member of the French Senate, 64-year-old Nicole Bricq worked closely with Dominique Strauss-Kahn before he quit French politics to run the IMF. A specialist of both finance and environment, she is one of the surprise picks in President François Hollande’s government. Manuel Valls, interior minister Spanish-born Manuel Valls, a specialist of security and immigration, is seen as a moderate in the Socialist Party. He ran in the party primary and then acted as Hollande’s campaign spokesperson. At 49, he has been mayor of Evry, an outer suburb of Paris, since 2001. Christiane Taubira, minister of justice A member of parliament for French Guiana, she was born in the South American territory in 1952. Her candidacy in the 2002 presidential election is thought to have contributed to the shock defeat of the former Socialist prime minister, Lionel Jospin. Jean-Yves Le Drian, minister of defence President of the regional council of Brittany, 64-year-old Jean-Yves Le Drian is a long-standing friend of Hollande. He served as secretary of state for maritime affairs in 1991-1992. Valérie Fourneyron, minister of sport Sports medicine doctor and deputy mayor of Rouen (François Hollande’s hometown), 52-year-old Valérie Fourneyron headed the sports dossier as part of Hollande's campaign team. Prior to that, she supported Hollande's rival for the Socialist nomination, Martine Aubry. Jérôme Cahuzac, minister of budget A senior advisor on budgetary matters and head of the parliamentary finance committee, Jérôme Cahuzac is thought of as the Socialist Party’s financial expert despite having trained as a plastic surgeon. He is currently both an MP and mayor in central France. Aurélie Filippetti, minister of culture A Green Party member before joining the Socialists to support Ségolène Royal in 2006, Aurélie Filippetti has been MP for the northeastern constituency of Moselle since 2007. She was in charge of cultural topics as part of Hollande’s campaign team. Michel Sapin, minister of labour Member of parliament for the central constituency of Indre, Michel Sapin is a key economics advisor to Hollande and very close to the president, whom he has known since their youth. He has served as a cabinet minister under three former prime ministers. Fleur Pellerin, minister of innovation South Korea-born Fleur Pellerin has never been elected to office but works as a government official. She worked on new technology as part of Hollande’s campaign team and has called for digital development in France. Vincent Peillon, minister of education A trained philosophy teacher, Vincent Peillon served as Ségolène Royal’s spokesperson during her presidential campaign in 2007. He was in charge of education during Hollande’s campaign for the presidency. Arnaud Montebourg, minister of industry and growth Trained as a lawyer, 49-year-old Arnaud Montebourg is a fierce anti-globalisation campaigner. After coming third in the Socialist Party primary, he chose to back Hollande over run-off rival Martine Aubry. He’s deputy of the eastern constituency of Saône-et-Loire. Marisol Touraine, minister of health Deputy of Indre-et-Loire, 53-year-old Marisol Touraine is also a member of the committee for social affairs at the National Assembly. She was charged with social protection within the PS. Cécile Duflot, minister of housing Leader of France’s Green Party (EELV), 37-year-old Cécile Duflot, a town planner by profession, rallied behind Hollande in the second round of France’s presidential election after her party’s candidate, Eva Joly, picked up a mere 2.3% of the vote in the first round. Stéphane Le Foll, minister of agriculture A member of the European Parliament (MEP) since 2004, 52-year-old Stéphane Le Foll worked as François Hollande’s shadow cabinet leader during the latter’s time as Socialist Party chief between 1997 and 2008.  
####2012 May 16####'Le Bling-bling, c'est fini'####The French press pass their first verdict on their new president - and predict the line-up of his government.Libération celebrates the change of style from the hyper-president to President Normal - whose convertible is a hybrid and who's willing to get soaked in driving rain to shake ordinary well-wishers' hands. Les Echos salutes a pragmatic choice of prime minister - while Le Parisien and Le Canard Enchaîné both think they know the cabinet line-up - but they have both have entirely different information.
####2012 May 17####French government: Who's in and who's out?####We take a look at the face of France's new government, not only those involved but also those who are not, such as Socialist party leader Martine Aubry. We also take a closer look at France's new leader. What kind of man is François Hollande? And caught between his campaign promises and the harsh realities of France and of the world, how will he act?On the set: Philip Turle, Journalist, RFI; Jean-Marc Gonin, Senior writer, Le Figaro Magazine.
####2012 May 17####Hollande’s new Socialist cabinet in numbers####French President François Hollande's new 34-member cabinet has been lauded for having 17 women ministers, the same number as men. Here's a look at some of the other eye-catching figures in France’s freshly appointed ministerial club.A list of 34 new cabinet ministers and junior ministers was unveiled amid excitement and speculation in France on Wednesday evening. The government, picked by French President François Hollande and newly appointed Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, will be holding its first meeting on Thursday. FRANCE'S NEW PRIME MINISTER FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Hollande names longtime ally Ayrault as prime minister Half of all the ministry jobs, 17 in total, went to women, in line with Hollande’s campaign promise to respect gender-parity in his government. It is the first time that as many women as men were present in a prime minister’s cabinet. However, only one heavy ministerial portfolio – the justice ministry – went to a woman, the French Guyanese lawmaker Christiane Taubira. There were other eye-catching figures in Ayrault’s team. While the government is composed of mostly veteran politicians, with 52 being the average age of an Ayrault minister, 7 appointments went to people under 40. A pair of newcomers are just 34-years old: Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, who will be in charge of the newly-created ministry of women’s rights, and Sylvia Pinel, now a junior minister in charge of artisans and tourism. Commentators have been quick to point out that more than half of the ministries, 18 in all, are being headed by non-Parisians. This characteristic is significant because bureaucrats from the French capital traditionally dominate the halls of government, cabinet ministries included. The list counted only 4 politicians who have served in previous governments. The returning ministers, Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici, Labour Minister Michel Sapin, and Marylise Lebranchu, minister of state reform, decentralization and public service, all served under former PM Lionel Jospin in the late 1990s. On Wednesday, 4 nominations went to left-wing politicians outside Hollande and Ayrault’s Socialist Party. Cécile Duflot, leader of the Green party in France, was named minister of housing, while Pascal Canfin, another Green and a member of the European Parliament, is now a junior minister under the ministry of ecology. Justice Minister Taubira and the young tourism chief Pinel hail from the moderate-left Radical Party. The presence of minorities, a trend that began under former conservative PM François Fillon, is another feature of France’s new government. The cabinet includes 7 people from French ethnic minorities, mostly of Caribbean and North African origins. It also counts Fleur Pellerin, a 38-year-old newcomer who was born in Korea and adopted by a French family when she was six months old. THE FACES OF FRANCE'S NEW GOVERNMENT Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, minister of women’s rights and government spokesperson Moroccan-born Rhône councillor Najat Vallaud-Belkacem served as a spokesperson for both Ségolène Royal in 2007 and François Hollande in 2012. Laurent Fabius, minister of foreign affairs Laurent Fabius has been a fixture of French politics for the past 30 years. In 1984, at the age of 37, he became France's youngest-ever prime minister. Eight times elected to parliament, he has also served as finance minister and speaker of France's National Assembly. Pierre Moscovici, minister of finance A former supporter of shamed Socialist Dominique Strauss-Kahn, Pierre Moscovici, 54, served as minister for european affairs under Lionel Jospin’s government between 1997 and 2002. He started his political career as a member of the Revolutionary Communist League (LCR). Nicole Bricq, minister of environment A member of the French Senate, 64-year-old Nicole Bricq worked closely with Dominique Strauss-Kahn before he quit French politics to run the IMF. A specialist of both finance and environment, she is one of the surprise picks in President François Hollande’s government. Manuel Valls, interior minister Spanish-born Manuel Valls, a specialist of security and immigration, is seen as a moderate in the Socialist Party. He ran in the party primary and then acted as Hollande’s campaign spokesperson. At 49, he has been mayor of Evry, an outer suburb of Paris, since 2001. Christiane Taubira, minister of justice A member of parliament for French Guiana, she was born in the South American territory in 1952. Her candidacy in the 2002 presidential election is thought to have contributed to the shock defeat of the former Socialist prime minister, Lionel Jospin. Jean-Yves Le Drian, minister of defence President of the regional council of Brittany, 64-year-old Jean-Yves Le Drian is a long-standing friend of Hollande. He served as secretary of state for maritime affairs in 1991-1992. Valérie Fourneyron, minister of sport Sports medicine doctor and deputy mayor of Rouen (François Hollande’s hometown), 52-year-old Valérie Fourneyron headed the sports dossier as part of Hollande's campaign team. Prior to that, she supported Hollande's rival for the Socialist nomination, Martine Aubry. Jérôme Cahuzac, minister of budget A senior advisor on budgetary matters and head of the parliamentary finance committee, Jérôme Cahuzac is thought of as the Socialist Party’s financial expert despite having trained as a plastic surgeon. He is currently both an MP and mayor in central France. Aurélie Filippetti, minister of culture A Green Party member before joining the Socialists to support Ségolène Royal in 2006, Aurélie Filippetti has been MP for the northeastern constituency of Moselle since 2007. She was in charge of cultural topics as part of Hollande’s campaign team. Michel Sapin, minister of labour Member of parliament for the central constituency of Indre, Michel Sapin is a key economics advisor to Hollande and very close to the president, whom he has known since their youth. He has served as a cabinet minister under three former prime ministers. Fleur Pellerin, minister of innovation South Korea-born Fleur Pellerin has never been elected to office but works as a government official. She worked on new technology as part of Hollande’s campaign team and has called for digital development in France. Vincent Peillon, minister of education A trained philosophy teacher, Vincent Peillon served as Ségolène Royal’s spokesperson during her presidential campaign in 2007. He was in charge of education during Hollande’s campaign for the presidency. Arnaud Montebourg, minister of industry and growth Trained as a lawyer, 49-year-old Arnaud Montebourg is a fierce anti-globalisation campaigner. After coming third in the Socialist Party primary, he chose to back Hollande over run-off rival Martine Aubry. He’s deputy of the eastern constituency of Saône-et-Loire. Marisol Touraine, minister of health Deputy of Indre-et-Loire, 53-year-old Marisol Touraine is also a member of the committee for social affairs at the National Assembly. She was charged with social protection within the PS. Cécile Duflot, minister of housing Leader of France’s Green Party (EELV), 37-year-old Cécile Duflot, a town planner by profession, rallied behind Hollande in the second round of France’s presidential election after her party’s candidate, Eva Joly, picked up a mere 2.3% of the vote in the first round. Stéphane Le Foll, minister of agriculture A member of the European Parliament (MEP) since 2004, 52-year-old Stéphane Le Foll worked as François Hollande’s shadow cabinet leader during the latter’s time as Socialist Party chief between 1997 and 2008.  
####2012 May 17####New French foreign minister faces baptism of fire####Almost three decades after becoming France’s youngest-ever prime minister, Laurent Fabius (left) returned to government this week as the new French foreign minister. With Syria, Iran and Afghanistan high on the agenda, Fabius faces a baptism of fire.In February, with his presidential campaign in full swing, François Hollande dispatched Laurent Fabius to Beijing to build contacts with the Chinese regime on his behalf. Fabius left the Chinese capital after just 24 hours with his tail between his legs after failing to persuade any senior officials to meet him. But after Hollande appointed him as the new French Foreign Minister on Wednesday 65-year-old Fabius, who is the oldest member of the new government, will now carry more weight when he tries to do the president’s bidding abroad. Much has been made of the French President’s choice of Fabius to lead the Foreign Ministry at the Quai D’Orsay in Paris. Fabius is a former rival of Hollande who once nicknamed the president ‘wild strawberry’, referring to his tendency to hide in the undergrowth of the Socialist Party and avoid the real world of politics. Hollande’s new cabinet Secretary general:    Pierre-René Lemas Chief of staff:    General Benoît Puga Cabinet director:    Sylvie Hubac Political adviser:    Aquilino Morelle   But by choosing Fabius, who under François Mitterrand in 1984 became the youngest ever Prime Minister at 37, Hollande has handed one of the most powerful jobs in his new government to a man with undisputed gravitas. Described in France as a real ‘elephant’ of the Socialist Party Fabius, who has already served in three government ministries, will need to draw on all of his experience as he takes over from his predecessor Alain Juppé at a time when France faces several pressing issues abroad. Getting to grips with Assad In a recent interview with FRANCE 24, before Hollande’s victory in the presidential runoff, Fabius said he wanted to end the ‘incoherence’ of Juppé’s foreign policy. But some analysts believe a new foreign minister will not necessarily mean a new foreign policy. “It’s not going to change much. Dominique Moisi, a founder of the IFRI foreign relations Paris-based think-tank told Reuters news agency. “He resembles Juppé in stature and looks. He has served the state, has dignity and calmness. He is a left-wing Juppé.” One of the more urgent issues on the Foreign Ministry’s agenda is the ongoing crisis in Syria. If Fabius’ previous statements regarding the ongoing violence in Syria are anything to go by, then he could be prepared to toughen France’s stance towards the Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad. In April 2011 in an interview with Europe1 radio station Fabius stated that the United Nations should intervene in Syria, before accepting the situation in the war-torn country was ‘unique’. He called on Sarkozy to ‘harden the tone’ towards Assad, describing the regime’s persecution of his own people as ‘abominable’. But Charles Grant, director of the London-based think-tank the Centre for European Reform told FRANCE 24 that such is Assad’s defiance of international pressure that “no matter what France says towards Syria it will not make any difference”. Withdrawal from Afghanistan One of François Hollande’s key election pledges was a promise to withdraw French troops from Afghanistan by the end of 2012, two years ahead of the planned NATO pullout. The decision is not expected to go down well with France’s western allies Britain and the United States at next week’s NATO summit in Chicago which will provide Fabius with his first major test less than a week into the job. TROUBLE AHEAD FRANCE Economic woes mean no honeymoon for Hollande Despite the expected antagonism from France’s NATO allies Fabius has already made his position clear on Afghanistan. “There is no chance of a military solution in Afghanistan. We have to work towards a political solution,” he told FRANCE 24 in April. With France not towing the coalition line on Afghanistan, the country’s recently rejuvenated relationship with NATO will come under the spotlight. In 2009 Nicolas Sarkozy returned France to being a fully-fledged member of NATO, 43 years after his predecessor Charles de Gaulle withdrew from the alliance’s integrated command. Despite the predicted friction over Afghanistan, analysts do not foresee Hollande and Fabius engineering a return to old ways and withdrawing France from its NATO commitments. “France’s position in NATO could possibly be a bone of contention for the new government” Professor Philippe Marlière from University College London told France 24. "Francois Hollande has not said he wished to leave NATO so I expect a continuation of that role.” Dealing with a nuclear Iran One of the files lying on Fabius’ desk which may suddenly be pushed to the top of the pile during his term in office is Iran and its controversial nuclear program. Fabius has said he is “absolutely hostile” to the prospect of Iran having the capability to launch a nuclear weapon as it would be “extremely dangerous for the region”. But he has also gone on the record saying that a pre-emptive Israeli strike against Iran’s nuclear facilities would carry “enormous risks”. For the time being, Fabius looks set to continue the foreign policy towards Iran laid down by his predecessor, telling FRANCE 24 he favored a two-pronged approach of combining strong sanctions with efforts to negotiate with the regime. An equal footing with Africa One area of foreign policy Fabius has vowed to break with is that of France’s often murky relationship with French-speaking African countries. FRANCE'S NEW PRIME MINISTER FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Hollande names longtime ally Ayrault as prime minister The French have long been accused of dealing with their former colonies as though they were still ruling them but Fabius vowed that future relations would be on a basis of “equals”. “We are going to deal with our African friends in a transparent fashion with a desire for partnership in development,” Fabius told journalists on Thursday. Another important file Juppé has handed over to Fabius is on the worsening crisis in Mali where concerns are growing that al Qaeda are setting up bases in the rebel-held north of the country. With the Middle East, Afghanistan and parts of Africa as unstable as ever, Fabius will no doubt have a busy time ahead on his return to frontline government. But like many of his colleagues in Hollande’s new government his new job looks set to be dominated by an all-too-familiar crisis closer to home. “The priority is to disentangle the crisis in Europe, while at the same time making progress on the most urgent issues,” he told BFMTV on Thursday.
####2012 May 17####French Presidency: A break with the past?####It was a week of handovers. On Tuesday, France's first Socialist president in 17 years made his way up the red carpet and into the history books, becoming only the second Socialist since 1958 to take up residence at the Élysée palace.On the set: Jérôme Guedj, Member of the French Socialist Party Joëlle Garriaud-Maylam, Senator, UMP Party.
####2012 May 20####Battle begins for control of France's parliament####Campaigning for France's parliamentary elections officially begins Monday in what is expected to be a fierce battle between left and right. Without a majority in the lower house, President Hollande will struggle to deliver on his campaign promises.The battle to take control of France’s National Assembly begins in earnest on Monday when the four week campaign period is officially launched. The Socialist Party is hoping to follow up the presidential triumph of François Hollande by gaining a majority in France’s lower house when the elections take place over two rounds on June 10 and 17. Despite predicted success, the Socialists want supporters to not waste the chance to give the country's first left-wing president in 17 years as firm a mandate as possible to push for reform in France. The party's campaign slogan is “Give a majority to change”. Although poll numbers look good for the left in general, with a recent BVA opinion poll putting their share of the vote at 45.5 percent nationally, the Socialists’ quest for control of parliament could still be undermined. Party chiefs have failed to reach an agreement with the far-left Left Front coalition, opening up the possibility that the Socialists could be pushed out of the second round vote in as many as 90 out of the 577 districts. Legislative battle FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 'Homeric battle' as leftist firebrand takes on Le Pen Without a majority, Hollande would struggle to pass reforms, such as the 75 percent tax rate on the super rich, which he promised during his presidential campaign. “If we were to lose legislative elections, the vote for Hollande will have been good for nothing,” Socialist deputy finance minister Benoît Hamon recently told television channel France 3. He said a right-wing government blocking Hollande’s suggested reforms would see France “fall into chaos”. “Financial markets would attack the country,” Hamon warned. Government changes The elections could also have a massive impact on Hollande’s new government, which was announced amid much anticipation on May 17. Out of the 34 members of the new Socialist government, as many as 26 are standing as candidates in the upcoming elections. In accordance with an unwritten rule, they will only be allowed to keep hold of their posts if they are successfully elected. The most high-profile of those running for election is Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, who is nonetheless almost guaranteed to win his seat. Other ministers facing what could be an anxious four weeks are party stalwart and new finance minister Pierre Moscovici and Health Minister Marisol Touraine. Several members of the younger generation of Socialists could also be in trouble, notably Culture Minister Aurélie Filipetti, 38.  Women’s Rights Minister and government spokesperson Najat Vallaut Belkacem, 34, who has never succeeded in stealing away Lyon’s fourth district from the right, made a U-turn last week deciding not to run as she had planned. UMP seeking 'co-habitation' The conservative Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) party will be looking to make amends after the disappointment of seeing Nicolas Sarkozy lose his presidential reelection bid. The UMP held 305 seats in the last parliament, and although polls suggest it will lose many of those, the party is hoping for a strong showing now that the unpopular Sarkozy is no longer an issue for voters. France's parliamentary elections Will take place on June 10 and 17, in a two-round vote. All 577 seats in the lower-house National Assembly are being contested. With 305 seats, the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) is currently the majority party in parliament. The UMP has led France’s most important legislative body for the past 10 years. An ideal scenario for the UMP would see it winning enough seats to force Hollande into appointing a right-wing prime minister, a scenario known in France as "co-habitation". The last period of "co-habitation" saw Jacques Chirac, a right-wing president, appoint Socialist Lionel Jospin as prime minister in 1997. The performance of the far-right National Front, under candidate Marine Le Pen’s newly-branded Marine Blue United campaign, could determine whether the UMP returns as a major political force or, as many analysts suggest, will disappear as the dominant party of the right. One of the mostly fiercely-contested seats will be in the northern French mining town of Hénin-Beaumont, where Left Front leader Jean-Luc Mélenchon announced he will face off against Le Pen. The elections could prove a chastening experience for centrist party MoDem and its leader François Bayrou, who are still in the doldrums after their disappointing performance in the presidential elections. Bayrou is not even assured of being re-elected in his own seat in his southwest Pyrenées-Atlantiques riding. In all, around 6,500 candidates, of which 40 percent are women, will fight for the National Assembly's 577 seats. Two of the more enigmatic names on the ballot sheets will be former weather man turned Radical Party candidate Patrice Drevet, and Céline Bara, the star of 180 porn films, who will contest a seat in the Ariège constituency of the Pyrenées. The high turnout that saw over 80 percent of voters casting their ballot for the presidential election is not expected to be repeated. In 2007 around 40 percent of voters abstained. Candidates must win at least 12.5 percent of the vote to qualify for the second ballot.  
####2012 May 23####Le Pen prepared to back socialists in French elections####Far right leader Marine le Pen has refused to rule out the possibility of supporting socialist candidates in June’s parliamentary elections. Some accuse her of being ‘incoherent’ but others see it as a canny ploy in her quest to rule the right.The divisive French far-right leader Marine le Pen this week refused to rule out the possibility of calling on her supporters to vote for a socialist candidate in next month’s parliamentary elections. In what marks a change of strategy, Le Pen declared this week that in ‘exceptional’ circumstances she was prepared to lend her backing to not only a conservative UMP candidate but even a socialist nominee in the key second round ballot on June 17. Her declaration is the first time the National Front has ever made eyes towards the French left. The far right has however, made pre-election alliances in the past with the French right, always with the sole aim of beating the socialists. Legislative battle FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 'Homeric battle' as leftist firebrand takes on Le Pen Le Pen’s statement is a marked shift from the position she took after April 22’s first round of the presidential election when she declined to publicly endorse either candidate for the run –off vote. Bidding to be kingmaker Bidding for the role of chief kingmaker, she said she will hand out her endorsements on a ‘case by case’ basis depending on the ‘morality’ of the candidates and only if her own candidate does not make it through to the second round. The leader of the anti-immigration National Front is also prepared to ask voters to help defeat those candidates she sees as “noxious or dangerous for France”. Le Pen did not however name any names. “We will not rule anything out. There are a certain number of candidates who are sincere and correct and who act with regard for the French people and refuse to vote for those things that are against the interests of France,” Le Pen told reporters at a press conference in Metz on Tuesday. Just as in the presidential election when many saw Le Pen’s refusal to endorse Nicolas Sarkozy as a contributing factor in his defeat, it now looks like the UMP are set to lose out once again. France's parliamentary elections Will take place on June 10 and 17, in a two-round vote. All 577 seats in the lower-house National Assembly are being contested. With 305 seats, the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) is currently the majority party in parliament. The UMP has led France’s most important legislative body for the past 10 years. UMP leaders are clearly concerned by the perceived resurgence of the far right. Earlier this month, the party’s secretary general Jean Francois-Copé warned voters that casting a ballot for the far right would simply allow the left in through the back door. Ruling a new right Far-right specialist Sylvain Crépon from the University of Nanterre, West Paris said Le Pen’s new found pragmatism is simply part of her long term ploy to become the dominant force on the French right. “The national front is seeking to sow discord,” he said. “Calling on followers to vote for the Socialist Party to oust certain right wing candidates creates panic among the UMP and plays in to the hands of her own party. “Jean-Francois Cope’s party knows that if they are defeated in the elections it faces a possible implosion, which would benefit the Front National.” Le Pen, whose party has been re-branded Marine Blue United for the parliamentary elections would then be in a strong position to demand certain conditions when a new right wing party is created, Crépon explains. ‘One deputy would be a success’ Le Pen, however, ruled out the possibility of asking her voters to back a candidate from the far left Front de Gauche party, whose leader Jean-Luc Melenchon will stand against her in her own constituency of Henin-Beaumont in northern France. The Henin-Beaumont electoral district Population: 124,641 (1999 census) Henin-Beaumont is located near the Belgian border in northern France, a region blighted by high unemployment. Since its creation in 1986, the electoral district has always been represented by left-wing politicians. Marine Le Pen moved to Henin-Beaumont in 2007. She was elected as municipal councillor in March 2008.   Le Pen could be heading for an embarrassing defeat with recent opinion polls putting her nemesis Melenchon on course for victory in the second round ballot. There could be success elsewhere for the National Front which is looking to win their first seat in France’s lower house since 1986. Strategists for Marine Blue United say they are hoping as many as 90 candidates will gain the 12.5 percent of the first round vote to qualify for the second ballot. Their ideal scenario would envisage between five and 10 National Front deputies in the National Assembly. “Even one would be a success, considering we don’t have any at the moment,” said Le Pen. The first round of voting will take place on June 10 with the second round one week later.
####2012 May 31####Facing election shipwreck, Sarkozy 'friends' rise up####With the right-wing UMP party predicted to lose upcoming parliamentary elections, former interior minister Brice Hortefeux (pictured left) and other French conservatives are embracing recently departed president Nicolas Sarkozy.As conservative leaders in France contemplate a likely defeat in parliamentary elections in June, some among them have rallied around an unlikely figure: defeated former president Nicolas Sarkozy. The Friends of Nicolas Sarkozy Association was formally established in Paris on Wednesday, fuelling ongoing speculation about the uncertain future of France’s political right. Sarkozy, who lost the May 6 presidential runoff to Socialist rival François Hollande, repeated before and after the vote that he would quit politics if he was defeated. According to a statement prepared for the press, the mission of the new organisation includes being “vigilant to the way the [Sarkozy] record while in office is represented in public discourse,” and “upholding the ideas and values that he defended during his mandate.” Brice Hortefeux, a former interior minister under Sarkozy and the head of the new group, told reporters that the former president’s friends would gather in a congenial spirit, and that they did not intend to weigh in on UMP party politics. The former president has in fact limited his public appearances to a minimum even as his right-wing UMP party faces an uphill campaign to maintain its majority in the lower-house National Assembly. However, the strangely timed launch – less than two weeks ahead of the legislative vote and amid media reports of an internal UMP war of succession – made observers wonder if many in Sarkozy’s party are hoping to head off an eventual fraction within their camp. Election trouble The UMP party could hit a historic bottom if it loses the parliamentary poll this spring. The Right lost control of the French Senate for the first time since World War Two in September 2011 elections. It is now forecast to concede its majority in the more important National Assembly for the first time in a decade. France's parliamentary elections Will take place on June 10 and 17, in a two-round vote. All 577 seats in the lower-house National Assembly are being contested. With 305 seats, the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) is currently the majority party in parliament. The UMP has led France’s most important legislative body for the past 10 years. A May 29 opinion study by Ipsos / Logica Business Consulting, a French polling firm, says Socialist Party candidates and their allies on the left are on pace to win 45 percent of first-round votes on June 10, compared to less than 35 percent for their UMP rivals. According to Olivier Rouquan, a political science professor and researcher at Paris 2 University, many in the UMP ranks are already preparing for defeat. “Their attitude and declarations indicate that they think they will lose the election,” said Rouquan. The French academic believes that those behind the Friends of Sarkozy initiative are betting that Sarkozy’s tenure would be the most valuable political capital to help them rebound politically, even if it was a questionable wager. “It is difficult to imagine that Sarkozy’s credibility can be exploited so soon among voters. The presidential election expressed a rejection of Sarkozy,” he told FRANCE 24. Life after Sarkozy The Friends of Sarkozy counts a handful of former ministers whose political careers may be heading toward dark days, including Sarkozy’s last interior minister Claude Guéant and former professional training minister Nadine Morano. However, UMP party chief Jean-François Copé, former prime minister François Fillon and former foreign minister Alain Juppé were notably absent. The three party heavyweights are all tipped to replace Sarkozy at the head of the UMP table, and there is some concern that their struggle will divide the party. Prodded by the press about the group’s possible ulterior aims, MP Christian Estrosi, also a former junior minister, said he thought Sarkozy “was destined to be the best unifying factor” for his party. Several other members said they personally wished to see Sarkozy return to politics. Olivier Rouquan does not think the UMP will implode as many observers have suggested, but cited the new organisation as an example of the internal party tensions rising to the forefront. “The message of the [Sarkozy] friends group, implicit or explicit, is that Nicolas Sarkozy is the only person capable of keeping the party united. At least for the near future his charisma and his executive experience will continue to impose itself on the party,” Rouquan said.  
####2012 June 01####France's strange-but-true parliamentary candidates####French voters say this year's parliamentary election campaign has thus far been bland, so FRANCE 24 takes a look at the oddball candidates trying to spice up the race."Let your rebellious side out to vote," says David Fabrice, a parliamentary candidate in the Val d'Oise region north of Paris. The self-branded "new ecologist" may inspire Avatar fanatics, but how many will board the starship all the way from Pandora to cast a ballot? She was forced to drop her candidacy in last month's presidential election, but Paris stripper Cindy'Lee has not been deflated. She is now a parliamentary hopeful in a constituency of the French capital. Céline Bara, a professional pornography actress from the southwest Ariège department, proposes a full-frontal election programme: antitheism, communism, libertarianism and...pornocracy. Alessandro di Giuseppe of the "Church of Blessed Consumerism" is the race's most gaudy parliamentary candidate. His campaign poster is divinely inspired: it is a direct spoof on former president Nicolas Sarkozy's re-election broadside. "All aboard!" Convinced there was not enough swashbuckling in the legislative poll, Kevin Cornet of the Pirate Party has set sail in the Val-de-Marne, southeast of Paris. But where's the parrot? Paris mayor Bertrand Delanoë is not laughing. Artist Gaspard Delanoë is telling voters "two Delanoës are better than one", while also insisting that he is the "fresher" of the two. The mayor's namesake is even calling for the secession of the city's fifth constituency. Philippe Gautry, candidate in the Yvelines department near Paris, takes a gamble by superimposing his poker face on the film poster of "Casino Royal". Jumping into the Seine river during the 2011 cantonal elections only got this James Bond poser soggy socks. Almamy Kanouté plays the cliché card: "Rapper? Hoodlum? Illegal immigrant? Terrorist? Drug dealer? Sports star?" No, the clothes don't make the MP, Kanoute argues. So what does? "I'm not promising the moon," says Pierre Guiraud, a lunatic comedian from southern France known for wearing cow udders. But despite his affinity for animals, there is little chance he will join the political circus. Ferret out the winner of the award for the candidate with the creepiest campaign poster. Which of the two mugs belongs to "independent ecologist" Gregory Berthault?
####2012 June 07####Socialists confront left-wing tensions ahead of key vote####France’s Socialist Party is on track to lead a left-wing parliamentary majority this spring, but differences with allied Greens and hard-left candidates are starting to show ahead of the June 10 poll.France’s Socialist Party (PS) is still fired up from winning the presidential election this past May, but that joy could soon be doused out. Parliamentary elections on June 10 and 17 are tipped to be a closer-than-expected contest and not the resounding victory for Socialists that was once announced. Less than a week before the first round of the legislative poll, the Socialist Party’s (PS) success seems to depend less on its ability to rebuff the conservative UMP party that has enjoyed a parliamentary majority for the past ten years than to outsmart its allies and rivals on the political left. According to several recent opinion surveys, the PS and UMP will gather the same support at the ballot box on June 10. France’s two main parties are both on track to win 32% of first round votes, polling firm BVA revealed Thursday. Two-round legislative polls in France are notoriously difficult to predict, and the UMP could yet pull off a come-from-behind win. A defeat would force President François Hollande to fire recently appointed Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault and pick a new PM from the UMP’s ranks. A cohabitation, or coalition government with the right, is something Socialists want to avoid at all costs. More than ever, a Socialist majority depends on the group’s formal alliance with the Green party, and its unofficial and often troubled ties to hard-left lawmakers. “We think the results are going to be very tight,” explained Eric Bonnet, director of opinion studies at the polling firm BVA. “The Socialist Party is not at all sure it can pull off an outright majority, and in that case it will have to rely on the support of the Greens and the Left Front [far-left coalition].” As the PS races to seize power it is being forced to strike deals with, and make concessions to, other left-wing parties - a road that has already proven to be fraught with peril. Choking on cannabis The PS established an accord with the Greens even before the presidential election, opening up the way for environmentalists to make major gains in the upcoming parliamentary poll. In exchange for the Green’s support, the PS promised not to field its own candidates in around 60 constituencies across the country. While presidential hopeful Eva Joly won a scant 2.3% of votes in the first round of the presidential election, her endorsement of François Hollande saw two prominent Greens - party chief Cécile Duflot and newcomer Pascal Canfin - rise to ministerial posts. But the Socialists romance with the Greens seemed more like a liability this week than anything else, after Duflot, the housing minister, told RMC radio on Wednesday that she personally supported the decriminalization of marijuana. That statement forced PM Ayrault to remind voters that the Socialist Party – and the government – remained opposed to legalising or decriminalizing the troublesome weed. Nevertheless, UMP candidates jumped at the occasion to warn voters about the Socialists' alleged permissive views on drugs. Former Health Minister Xavier Bertrand, a UMP candidate in the northern Aisne department, told the press he was “sure” the Socialists were preparing a bill to legalise cannabis. While the controversy seemed destined to blow over quickly, the forced marriage between the Socialist Party and Greens for the parliamentary poll could have deeper, more fraught consequences. Already, some twenty members of the Socialist party are ignoring the election pact and presenting themselves as candidates in races against the Greens. In the city of Lyon, for example, prominent Socialist mayor Gérard Collomb has publicly backed Thierry Braillard, a candidate running against Philippe Meirieu, a Green party candidate officially backed by the Socialists as part of the accord. Pushing the hard-left agenda Tensions are even more vivid with the Left Front, a hard-left coalition that includes France’s Communist Party. Left Front leader Jean-Luc Mélenchon got 11% of votes in the presidential election but refused to join the Socialist-led government. Tipped to secure 9% in the parliamentary poll, his coalition is threatening to siphon more votes from the Socialist Party than even the Greens. Mélenchon has earned plaudits from left-wing voters for directly challenging far-right figurehead Marine Le Pen in a parliamentary race in France’s north. If he wins that race, Mélenchon has already warned he will not systematically side with the Socialists in parliament. Perhaps looking to win over voters who are once again tempted to vote for the Left Front, Hollande’s government has swiftly moved to make good on a promise to lower the retirement age from 62 to 60 for some workers. “Hollande knows that this measure has the potential to seduce Left Front voters,” explained BVA’s Bonnet. According to the latest estimates, both the Greens and the far-left coalition should reach the minimum 20 seats required to form their own voting block in France’s next parliament. Even if the Socialist Party seems ready to shed its label as France’s opposition party, its days of having to bargain appear far from over.
####2012 June 08####Pirate Party sets sail for French legislative vote####For the first time in its short history, France’s Pirate Party, who champion internet freedom, will present candidates in the coming parliamentary elections - even if it sees little chance of repeating the success of its German counterparts.Inspired by the success of its German peers, the Pirate Party (PP), whose platform largely focuses on digital rights, is participating for the first time in a parliamentary poll in France. While it admits that it has virtually no chance of sending a member to the National Assembly this spring, France’s newest political force hopes at least to refresh the political debate. Established in 2009, the 500-member strong French PP is presenting 101 candidates in the first round of the election on June 10. The parliamentary hopefuls say they are running to fight against Internet censorship and for greater transparency in government, among other issues. FRENCH POLITICS FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 France's strange-but-true parliamentary candidates According to one of the party’s slogans, the PP is “neither on the right or the left,” but on the political “forefront”. "Our aim is not just to denounce censorship. We want to offer realistic solutions on issues such as copyright and privacy laws on the Internet – issues politicians don’t understand,” said Maxime Rouquet, the PP’s co-president and a candidate in the Yvelines department west of Paris. Nevertheless, the party has struggled to make a place for itself in the current campaign. France’s PP lacks the track record of its Swedish counterparts, who burst onto the political scene in 2006, or the popular support of Germany’s "piraten" movement. The German model Indeed, in Germany the Pirate Party has become a veritable thorn in the side of the political establishment. After winning a surprise 8.9% of votes in the September 2011 Berlin state election - enough for 15 seats in the state parliament - the Pirates have also added representatives in three other German state assemblies. Germany’s Pirates moved ahead of Greens in terms of representatives at the national level for the first time this year, and its membership has exceeded 30,000 people, according to the party’s website. A common European project In France, the PP is still not taken seriously, even if new Internet anti-piracy laws passed during former French president Nicolas Sarkozy’s tenure have given them solid points to rally around. The so-called HADOPI and LOPPSI laws destined to curb copyright infringement on the Internet and censure pornographic content on websites have drawn stiff criticism in France in recent years. France’s Pirate Party has actively participated in efforts to strike down these laws. However, the group’s platform has been dismissed by critics who say it revolves almost exclusively around the Internet and new technologies. The Pirate Party in Germany, meanwhile, has widened the scope of its programme to include proposals on most social issues. Rouquet, the French PP leader, hopes his group can move in the same direction, and believes its future success depends on developing a “common European programme” with like-minded parties across the continent. He is also counting on voters to steer the party toward a brighter future. Borrowing once more from the German model, Rouquet has called on ordinary citizens to help shape the movement’s agenda by sharing ideas and proposals via the Web in and open-ended and participative project the group has baptized as “liquid democracy”. "It's a way to make sure that people do not vote for a fixed platform and that they can influence policy even after an election is over,” explained Ben de Biel, one of the leaders Pirate Party in Berlin. The French Pirates, tempered by thier experence of preparing for the coming legislatives, have already avowed that they are now setting their sights on the European parliamentary elections in 2014.   
####2012 June 08####First girlfriend? First journalist?####Britain's Daily Mail savages France's first lady Valérie Trierweiler, calling her The Rottweiler. That paper and much of the French press is looking at her return to work at Paris Match magazine this week. Some of the pieces focus on the dilemma of just what to call her - First girlfriend? First journalist? That's the focus for Friday, 8th June 2012.
####2012 June 09####Left-wing parties on top in first round of legislative vote####Left-wing parties and their allies secured 47.1% of the votes in the first round of France’s parliamentary elections on Sunday while the UMP and its right-wing allies garnered 35.4%, according to preliminary figures from the Ipsos polling agency.Follow the first round of the French parliamentary elections in real time on our live blog by clicking here. France’s Socialist Party hopes to seize its first parliamentary majority in a decade when voters head to the polls on Sunday. The legislative election, which opinion polls predict will be a tight race between the country’s two main political parties, comes just more than a month after socialist François Hollande won the presidential runoff ballot. All 577 seats in the lower-house National Assembly are up for grabs. President Hollande and his recently appointed government need a left-wing majority to implement the reforms for which he campaigned. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRANCE 24 France's parliamentary elections, explained. However, the conservative UMP party is intent on conserving its advantage in the assembly, which remains its final stronghold after defeats in May's presidential election as well as 2011 senatorial elections. A win for the UMP on Sunday would force the socialist president to appoint a new prime minister from the rival camp and enter into a cohabitation, or coalition government. This kind of political arrangement has occurred three times in France since the end of World War Two. It is a situation socialists want desperately to avoid. To achieve an absolute majority, the Socialist Party must attain 289 seats. The left-wing party hopes to ride the momentum of its presidential victory all the way into the National Assembly and govern without concession for the next five years. To try to offset the leftward trend, the UMP has decided to run many incumbents and well-established politicians, even at the risk of breaking gender balance rules and thus making itself subject to heavy fines. Questions over abstention Roughly 46 million people are eligible to vote on Sunday, choosing from a roster of more than 6,600 candidates. Voter participation had reached 48.31 percent by 5pm, the ministry of the interior announced. That figure was down slightly from the previous parliamentary election in 2007, in which voter participation was at 49.28 at the same time. To avoid a second-round ballot, candidates need to secure more than 50 percent of the vote. In the 2007 parliamentary election, only 109 candidates won more than half the votes in the first round. All candidates who attain 12.5 percent of total eligible votes or better on Sunday will head to the runoff on June 17. One of the determining factors of the election will be voter participation. The French usually turn out to cast ballots in high numbers for presidential elections, but tend to show less interest in legislative polls. The abstention rate reached 39 percent in the first round of the 2007 parliamentary elections. According to Eric Bonnet of the French polling firm BVA, low turnout is once again expected. “A low turnout will mean less MPs from the left, and fewer cases where three candidates face off in a runoff,” said Bonnet said. The opinion expert added that first-round results could significantly affect voters’ interest in the second round. “There are two different campaigns before and after the first round, and there could be a big shift between the two ballots,” he explained. Low first-round voter turnout could also spell disaster for the anti-immigration National Front party, which partially stole the spotlight in the presidential election with a historic 18 percent of the vote, but could once more find itself excluded from parliament this spring.    
####2012 June 10####Far-left leader concedes defeat in battle with Le Pen####France's far-left leader Jean-Luc Mélenchon conceded defeat to the far-right National Front's Marine Le Pen (pictured) following a first round of parliamentary elections on Sunday, saying he would not compete in the June 17 second round.AFP - French far-left leader Jean-Luc Melenchon conceded defeat to anti-immigrant leader Marine Le Pen in Sunday's first-round parliamentary election, saying he would not stand in the second round. Left Front leader Melenchon had taken Le Pen and her far-right National Front party head-on in a bitter battle in Henin-Beaumont, a rundown former mining constituency near the northern city of Lille. "It's normal to be disappointed but we must not be defeated," Melenchon said. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRANCE 24 France's parliamentary elections, explained. Melenchon said he would not stand in next Sunday's second round after coming third, instead leaving his Socialist rival to battle Le Pen. Le Pen claimed that the result meant her party, which wants to ditch the euro, was now France's third political power. "Given the abstention rate and a profoundly anti-democratic electoral system that has for 25 years deprived millions of voters of MPs, we confirm our position tonight as France's third political force," Le Pen said. Although the party has not won a seat in parliament since 1986, Le Pen is seeking to build on her strong showing in the presidential vote and cement her party's place in national politics. Melenchon won 11 percent of votes in the April-May presidential vote that was won by Socialist Francois Hollande, while Le Pen won almost 18 percent of votes.  
####2012 June 11####France swings to the left####François Hollande looks poised for a clear mandate when French voters return to the polls for a fourth time in six weeks in next Sunday’s parliamentary run-off, but with the financial crisis looming and the far-right gaining steam, we should expect more surprises before the dust settles.Richard YUNG. Senator, Socialist Party; Fabienne KELLER. Senator, UMP; Ulrike KOLTERMANN. Former Paris Bureau Chief, Deutsche Presse-Agentur; Peter GUMBEL. Director of Communications, Sciences Po Paris. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Julien Munzer, Wassim Nasr. Watch the second part here.  
####2012 June 11####France swings to the left (part 2)####François Hollande looks poised for a clear mandate when French voters return to the polls for a fourth time in six weeks in next Sunday’s parliamentary run-off, but with the financial crisis looming and the far-right gaining steam, we should expect more surprises before the dust settles.Richard YUNG. Senator, Socialist Party; Fabienne KELLER. Senator, UMP; Ulrike KOLTERMANN. Former Paris Bureau Chief, Deutsche Presse-Agentur; Peter GUMBEL. Director of Communications, Sciences Po Paris. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Julien Munzer, Wassim Nasr. Watch the first part here.
####2012 June 11####French Socialists poised for parliamentary triumph####French President François Hollande’s Socialist Party and its left-wing allies look set to win a majority in the lower house following Sunday's first-round parliamentary poll.Left-wing parties inched towards a majority in the French lower house in Sunday’s first round of parliamentary elections, putting French President François Hollande on track to push through his anti-austerity, tax-and-spend reforms. More than a month after Nicolas Sarkozy lost the May 6 presidential election, his conservative UMP party got 27 percent of the vote, two notches below the ruling Socialist Party’s 29 percent, according to final interior ministry results. French National Assembly Seat Projections But along with their Green and left-wing allies, the Socialists won around 46 percent, well ahead of the 34 percent for the UMP and its conservative allies. Voter turnout in Sunday’s elections was 57 percent, a record low for a French parliamentary election. The second round of the election, to be held on June 17, is expected to hand Hollande and his allies a majority of seats in the 577-seat National Assembly. Left-wing parties are already in the majority in the French Senate. Speaking on France 2 television, Socialist Party chief Martine Aubry said French voters had “expressed their support for change” and their “wish to amplify” Hollande’s victory. Even as left-wing parties knuckled down to campaigning Monday for the June 17 runoff, France’s leftward slide seemed inevitable, with pollsters estimating that the Socialists and its allies could win the 289 seats needed to enjoy an absolute majority in the National Assembly. But analysts have cautioned that it is hard to accurately predict the final tallies in the second round, especially since voters face a three-way runoff in many constituencies. "The game is not over yet," said UMP party chief Jean-Francois Copé, who escaped a dangerous three-way runoff that would have pitted him against a far right National Front candidate. The UMP boss now faces Green candidate Caroline Pinet in the Meaux department, east of Paris. Marine Le Pen ousts leftist arch-foe Sunday’s elections saw a strong showing for the far-right party, the National Front, which won nearly 14 percent of the vote, a significant hike from the 4 percent it won in the 2007 parliamentary elections. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRANCE 24 France's parliamentary elections, explained. In one of the most interesting races in the first round, National Front chief Marine Le Pen took a commanding lead in the northern city of Hénin-Beaumont, trouncing her arch-foe, firebrand leftist Jean-Luc Mélenchon. Mélenchon bowed out of the race Sunday night after Le Pen won 42 percent of the vote in the primarily working-class city that has long provided popular support for the National Front. But while Le Pen’s victory was a symbolic win for her party, the 43-year-old daughter of National Front founder Jean-Marie Le Pen faces a tough fight in the runoff against Socialist candidate Philippe Kemel, who is expected to pick up the 21 percent of the vote Melenchon won on Sunday. After claiming an all-time high in the presidential elections, the National Front had set its sights on sending its members to the National Assembly, where they have not had a representative since 1998. Under French electoral law, parliamentary candidates must earn the support of at least 12.5 percent of all registered voters to qualify. The low voter turnout in the first round has only increased the challenges confronting the National Front and the conservative UMP in advancing candidates for the June 17 vote. Getting out the vote for the runoff The results of the first round have put Hollande in a strong position for his generous tax-and-spend policies, opposed by German chancellor Angela Merkel, as the French president heads for a flurry of talks this week with eurozone leaders. Hollande’s new cabinet Secretary general:    Pierre-René Lemas Chief of staff:    General Benoît Puga Cabinet director:    Sylvie Hubac Political adviser:    Aquilino Morelle   On the presidential campaign trail, Hollande had promised that Socialist Party ministers who were not elected by their constituencies would lose their cabinet posts. Following Sunday’s first round, most ministers were in comfortable positions, although the Socialists have been careful to focus their message on getting out the vote for the second round. Hollande's Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, re-elected in the first round voting in the Loire-Atlantique region, hailed Sunday’s results and urged voters to return to the polls in numbers for the second round to hand a "large, solid and coherent majority" for the Socialist party and its allies. "Change is going to be around for a while," he said, echoing the Socialists' presidential election slogan.  
####2012 June 12####Royal gets tweet-slapped by Hollande’s girlfriend####Ségolène Royal, former partner to French President Francois Hollande, has been attacked by his new companion Valérie Trierweiler (pictured) who has tweeted her support for Royal’s opponent in Sunday’s parliamentary elections.French President François Hollande’s girlfriend Valérie Trierweiler announced her support for a political opponent of his ex-partner Ségolène Royal on Tuesday, a move that will embarrass Royal as her political career hangs in the balance. In a tweet, Trierweiler praised Olivier Falorni, who is running against Royal for the La Rochelle constituency in Sunday’s second round of the parliamentary elections. “Good luck to Olivier Falorni, a worthy candidate who has been fighting for years with selfless commitment for the people of La Rochelle.” “Good luck to Olivier Falorni who is a worthy candidate,” the Paris Match journalist wrote. “For years he has been fighting with selfless commitment for the people of La Rochelle.” Royal is the former long-term partner of Hollande, with whom she has four children. The couple separated after her failed 2007 presidential battle against Nicolas Sarkozy, when it emerged he had been having an affair with Trierweiler. Since then Royal's standing in the party has been in freefall. She failed to win the leadership of PS in 2008 when Hollande quit to focus on his own presidential ambitions, and in the 2011 primary to choose the party’s presidential candidate she came fourth with less than 7% of the vote. Royal now faces further humiliation if she fails to hold on to her slim lead against dissident PS candidate Olivier Falorni, who has been expelled from the party for defending his seat. Falorni, the constituency’s incumbent member of parliament who is known to be close to Hollande, got 29% of the vote against Royal’s 32%. The two will go head to head in a run-off vote on Sunday. She is also facing a campaign by leading members of the centre-right UMP party of former President Nicolas Sarkozy on the Charente-Maritime council (of which she is president) who have lent implicit support to Falorni in a campaign dubbed “anything but Royal.” Royal strikes back In an interview on BFMTV on Tuesday Royal, who hopes to become speaker of the National Assembly, insisted that she had the president’s full support and that she would not quit politics should Falorni beat her on Sunday. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRANCE 24 France's parliamentary elections, explained. “François Hollande said very clearly that I am the only candidate that he will support in this vote,” she said. “He said that I am the only candidate that shares the vision with his government. If I lose it will be because of the UMP faction [in Charente-Maritime] that wants me out.” Royal added that her right-wing opponents “simply want to destabilise the Socialist Party” and that their tactics were “politically immoral”. She also insisted that while she was campaigning for a constituency that she has never represented before, she was the right person for the job. “I am a liberated woman, I like to stir things up and I open doors,” she said. “I am in a way the very image of La Rochelle, rebellious, generous and liberated. “Even if Mr Falorni reproaches me for not being La Rochelle born and bred – an argument one normally hears from the [far right] National Front – I am much more present on the scene than this man who has accused me of parachuting into a safe seat.” Reacting to Trierweiler’s tweet on Tuesday, PS First Secretary Martine Aubry voiced her support for Royal in Sunday’s vote and said the whole of the party was behind her. Visiting La Rochelle on Tuesday she said: “The only thing that matters is that Hollande is supporting Royal, and he is absolutely clear about that.” Royal said she had no comment to make about Trierweiler’s post on Twitter.
####2012 June 13####French press pounces on first lady’s Twitter mishap####Valérie Trierweiler, France’s new first lady, has become the focus of intense scrutiny by the French press after she sent a Twitter message embarrassing the Socialist Party four days ahead of key parliamentary elections.French President François Hollande’s honeymoon cruise with the press ran aground on Thursday as newspapers pounced on the controversy pitting his companion Valérie Trierweiler against Hollande’s own Socialist Party. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 Royal gets tweet-slapped by Hollande’s girlfriend On Wednesday, Trierweiler embarrassed leaders of the president’s political camp by endorsing a rebel Socialist Party (PS) member who is running for a parliamentary seat in the western city of La Rochelle against the party’s official candidate, Hollande’s former partner, mother of their four children and PS heavyweight, Ségolene Royal. “A promise that one tweet broke,” the conservative daily Le Figaro wrote in reference to Hollande’s campaign pledge to keep his private and public life separate and be a “normal” head-of-state. Hollande told voters he would lead a “no-drama” administration that would avoid the constant media exposure and encroachment on private life that former president Nicolas Sarkozy seemed to invite. On Thursday morning, however, Hollande and Trierweiler were the focus of intense scrutiny across the French media, while the hash tag #Trierweilergate had been coined on Twitter. Normal presidency no more Even newspapers that have typically shown more sympathy toward Hollande, like the left-leaning Libération, widely covered the incident. First lady Valérie Trierweiler makes the June 13 cover of the French newspaper Libération. "France's first gaffe" the headline reads. “France’s first gaffe” Libération headlined, in an allusion to Trierweiler’s reported wish to find a substitute for the “first lady” title. “It is an improbable movie script that mixes political rivalries and private jealousies, power plays and intimate secrets and all at the highest level of the State,” wrote Libération’s Grégoire Biseau. “We thought this kind of cocktail would remain the trademark of the former president… now we know that the normal presidency of Hollande is finally not so normal.” In a blog titled “The first lady’s existential crisis”, Le Monde commentator Françoise Fressoz describes Trierweiler as a woman torn between her journalistic reflexes and her ill-defined new role, and Hollande as her unsuspecting victim. “It would have been better to keep silent, because it’s François Hollande who now faces the firing squad. The 'normal president', who had almost been faultless, is now forced to comment on his romantic life and threatened by the celebrity treatment he strongly condemned during the past five years,” Fressoz wrote. Regional daily Le Parisien was among several newspapers reporting that Trierweiler failed to inform Hollande before publishing her unilateral endorsement and that his administration was reeling from the affair. “The president was very upset. He took to the news very badly. He is a modest man and she crossed the line. This could hurt his image,” the daily quoted a presidential advisor as saying. Not just an election hurdle Le Parisien also emphasized the stunned reactions from the Socialist Party, whose leaders have been forced to answer embarrassing questions just four days before a parliamentary election that could see them win a majority after ten years as the opposition. “The only thing that matters to us is that François Hollande backs Ségolène Royal,” the daily quotes a startled Socialist Party chief Martine Aubry as saying. Royal herself avoided taking questions from the press after finding out about Trierweiler’s message, the daily reported. Many publications decided to publish opposing photos of Trierweiler and Royal and highlighted the potentially poisoned ties between the Elysée Presidential Palace and the Socialist Party. “[Trierweiler and Royal], each woman with her own status, must now share a single terrain – the Socialist Party – and a single man – François Hollande,” the weekly Le Nouvel Observateur wrote in its online version. The incident was also the opportunity for many anaylsts to comment on Trierweiler’s previously underreported intense jealousy of Hollande’s former partner, and question if the first lady was not a long-term liability for both the Socialist Party and Hollande himself. The L'Express weekly wrote a rare article about the rivalry between Trierweiler and Royal on May 19, and rehashed the story on Thursday in light of the Twitter incident. Writing in the Marianne weekly, Christine Clerc said she was finding it difficult to continue to defend Trierweiler’s independent spirit: “[Trierweiler] should have made the choice a long time ago. She should have refused to grace the red carpet at the Elysée Palace on inauguration day, then climb the steps of the White House. You cannot be first lady, as well as a critical journalist, as well as jealous woman, without disappointing the French people and destabilizing your partner’s presidency.”  
####2012 June 14####Key politicians face defeat as Socialists eye victory####France’s left is expected to take over parliament for the first time in 10 years on Sunday, but election night also promises to be a critical crossroads for several prominent individuals, including longtime Socialist heavyweight Ségolene Royal.France’s parliamentary elections on June 17 are widely expected to hand the left its first majority in the lower-house National Assembly in a decade. The Socialist Party could even pull off an absolute majority, giving recently elected Socialist president François Hollande a strong mandate to usher in reforms. The Socialist Party won the first round of the legislative poll on June 10. Their lead, however, was razor-thin and most of the parliament’s seats - 541 of the 577 total – are still up for grabs. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 'Mortified' Royal hits back over First Lady's tweet The UMP is battling to limit the damage of the Socialist tide, but also struggling to rise above the surging far-right National Front party, which came in third in the first round with 13 percent of votes. UMP candidates are caught in 29 three-way runoffs against left-wing and far-right candidates. Socialist heavyweight Segoléne Royal, the loser of France’s 2007 run-off presidential election, is locked in a poisonous duel with a rebel Socialist Party member who is challenging her ticket in the western city of La Rochelle. Her campaign has been swarmed by controversy following first lady Valérie Trierweiler’s decision to endorse her rival. Royal is one of several prominent French politicians who face a critical test on Sunday. FRANCE 24 takes a look at the major players and the symbolic clashes that will define the 2012 parliamentary election. Segoléne Royal is down to her final strike in the city of La Rochelle after losing the presidential poll against Nicolas Sarkozy in 2007 and failing in her bid to lead the Socialist Party in 2008. Opinion polls indicate she may again be heading toward defeat.Photo AFP Centrist figurehead François Bayrou, the "third-man" of the 2007 presidential poll, is struggling to remain relevant. He faces a tough three-way runoff for his own MP seat and the MoDem party he leads could be completely excluded from France's next parliament.Photo AFP Can the far-right Marine Le Pen storm the gates of parliament this spring? The National Front candidate finished first in her constituency in the northern city of Hénin-Beaumont, but all the first round candidates have endorsed her Socialist rival in the runoff. Photo AFP Arguably France's most accomplished woman politician, the UMP's Michèle Alliot-Marie was forced to step down as foreign minister after she said France could help quell the 2011 Tunisian revolution. Can she bounce back with a win in the parliamentary poll?Photo AFP Junior minister for handicapped people Marie-Arlette Carlotti (PS) is fighting in Marseille for a parliamentary seat, but also her job. Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said any minister that lost the election must also drop their ministerial portfolio.Photo AFP MP Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, former president Nicolas Sarkozy's campaign spokeswoman, has been a vocal critic of the far-right National Front. She faces a tough battle to keep her seat after the FN called on sympathisers to vote her out of office. Photo AFP Unlike Kosciusko-Morizet (see previous), Nadine Morano has appealed directly to FN voters to back her in the runoff. Her victory or defeat could be a sign of where the right is moving politically in France.Photo AFP Just 22 years old Marion Maréchal-Le Pen, the granddaughter of the historical National Front figurehead, Jean-Marie Le Pen, finished first in the southeastern constituency of Vaucluse. Is the future bright for France's far-right? Photo AFP For those who were disappointed not to see an epic far-right vs far-left runoff in Hénin-Beaumont, there remains one such battle in the constituency of Martigues, near Marseille. Communist mayor Gaby Charroux (left) takes on National Front newcomer Beatrix Espallardo.Photos courtesy of candidates' websites
####2012 June 14####'Mortified' Royal hits back over First Lady's tweet####Ségolène Royal, former partner of President François Hollande, has hit back at his current partner Valérie Trierweiler, who voiced support for Royal's opponent in Sunday's parliamentary vote in a controversial tweet.REUTERS - The woman who spent some 25 years with French President Francois Hollande has hit back at Hollande’s current partner for snubbing her in a Twitter message many consider the first major faux-pas of his debut in office. Segolene Royal, who ran unsuccessfully for president in 2007 just before she and Hollande split, riposted after first lady Valerie Trierweiler tweeted in support of Royal’s opponent in Sunday’s parliamentary election runoff. The incident comes at a critical moment for Hollande and his Socialist Party and prompted Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault to call for greater discretion from Trierweiler. Royal was initially reduced to silence by what media dubbed the “bombshell” of Trierweiler’s public declaration of support for a left-wing rival, who has locked horns with Hollande’s ex in the western seaside town of La Rochelle. The riposte came on Wednesday night when an emotional Royal acknowledged that she had been deeply offended and deserved greater respect. “I don’t have the right to let myself be shot down,” she told supporters in La Rochelle. “That does not mean I am not mortified, that I am not hurt - I am not a robot.” She added: “I make a simple request - respect for political combat and respect for the mother of a family whose children also hear what is being said.” Rivalry made public Trierweiler’s tweet, apparently prompted by Hollande having expressed support for Royal’s candidacy, exposed the rivalry between the two women, countering his promise of a more sober presidency after the soap opera love life of his conservative predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy. “Good luck to Olivier Falorni, a worthy candidate who has been fighting for years with selfless commitment for the people of La Rochelle.” Hollande and Royal, who got together at the end of the 1970s, had four children over a quarter of a century where they combined dual political careers and family life. The tweet by Trierweiler, a political journalist for more than two decades at glossy current affairs magazine Paris Match, has additionally caused consternation and embarrassment in Socialist circles at a critical moment before Sunday’s ballot. Some journalists have suggested the affair could be as damaging as Sarkozy’s “Fouquet’s moment”—a 2007 post-election party with the rich elite at a swanky nightspot for which he was criticised until the very end of his term. Hollande, who hopes to cap his May 6 election by winning a Socialist majority in the National Assembly lower house of parliament, has not commented on the tweet episode. Government spokesman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem has said Trierweiler was expressing a personal opinion. An Ifop poll released on Wednesday showed Royal losing badly to Olivier Falorni, a dissident left-winger who was expelled from the Socialist Party earlier this year for refusing to step aside for Royal as the left’s candidate in La Rochelle. Ayrault urged Falorni again this week to pull out of the race, but the candidate retorted: “Democracy will have the final say.”  
####2012 June 15####Polls predict election doom for conservative UMP party####Another defeat in France's parliamentary elections could spell disaster for former President Nicolas Sarkozy's conservative UMP party, as polls predict France's Socialists look set to get an absolute majority in the National Assembly.FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRANCE 24 France's parliamentary elections, explained. Opinion polls in France show that the Socialist Party will likely enjoy an absolute majority in parliament as voters head to the second round of legislative elections on Sunday. A victory for Socialists on June 17 would cap a string of triumphs, notably President François Hollande’s runoff win over conservative former president Nicolas Sarkozy last month, and also the French left’s takeover of the Senate in September 2011. A socialist parliamentary majority would rub salt on the open wound of the centre-right Union for a Popular Movement (UMP), still reeling from its defeat in the presidential poll and now grappling with internal tensions. According to Celine Bracq, an opinion expert with the French polling firm BVA, Hollande’s camp has appeared to increase its advantage between the two rounds. “We thought [the Socialist Party] would have to turn to Greens and hard-left lawmakers to rule… now it looks like they will attain an absolute majority,” Bracq said, adding that BVA projected the Socialist bloc claiming between 280 and 300 seats in the new parliament, compared to between 220 and 250 seats for the UMP. Jérome Sainte-Marie, director of opinion studies at the French pollster CSA, agreed that a Socialist majority was near certain, adding his company’s calculations gave the left-wing party between 287 and 330 seats. Socialists need 289 seats of the 577-seat chamber to rule without concession and implement Hollande’s promised reforms. Questions remained over voter participation, after the first round on June 10 saw historically low turnout among voters. CSA’s Sainte-Marie said his firm’s surveys pointed toward a new abstention record. “Many voters told us they were disappointed their candidate was not in the runoff. Turnout will probably be lower,” he said. The UMP’s identity crisis French National Assembly Seat Projections Following his defeat, Sarkozy has faded from public view and left UMP leaders to fend off the left-wing offensive on their own. But besides protecting their seats in the National Assembly, the UMP is also confronting both internal rivalries for the party’s leadership and difficult questions about its relationship to the far-right National Front (FN) party. According to BVA’s Bracq, the presidential and legislative campaigns have revealed two major trends among the UMP’s traditional voters. “One the one hand, an increasing number of candidates and voters openly say that the UMP and the far-right have a certain number of ‘shared values’ and accept election agreements [between the two parties] at the local level. On the other, you have centrists who are offended by the ‘shared values’ discourse and are turning away from the party,” she explained. “Clearly, there is movement in the UMP’s electoral base,” Bracq said, adding that the final results of the parliamentary poll would probably shape the “future identity” of the party. The fates of two UMP parliamentarians could prove to be the litmus test for the opposing trends within the party. Nadine Morano, from eastern France, has vocally called on FN supporters to rally behind her, while Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, a representative from the Essone department near Paris, is the leading anti-FN voice within their camp. Both MPs face an uphill battle to hold onto their seat, and their success or failure could help determine what political direction the party will take. A foot in the door for the far right? Hollande’s new cabinet Secretary general:    Pierre-René Lemas Chief of staff:    General Benoît Puga Cabinet director:    Sylvie Hubac Political adviser:    Aquilino Morelle   Questions also remained about the number of seats, if any, the National Front will claim on election night. A handful of FN candidates, including party president Marine Le Pen and her 22-year-old niece Marion Maréchal Le Pen, finished first in their constituencies in the first round. France’s two-round system, however, makes it difficult for far-right hopefuls to advance all the way into the National Assembly. Among dozens of FN candidates in runoffs across the country, only Marion Maréchal Le Pen was forecast by pollsters to cry victory on Sunday. Sylvain Crépon, a French scholar and expert on the far-right, said that a seat in the National Assembly would be hailed as a major victory for the National Front, but that it would not be a historic event since the FN had 35 members in parliament in the early 1980s and one additional member in the 1990s. “It would be historic for the presidency of Marine Le Pen, who would be able to claim she had one or two MPs in the National Assembly after taking over the party,” Crépon said. Whether Le Pen’s camp finds an entry into parliament or not, the recent elections have confirmed that the far right remains a fixture of France’s political landscape. No one should be more concerned about that than the UMP.
####2012 June 17####French Socialists aim for majority in election runoff####French President François Hollande's Socialist Party is tipped to win a majority in the country's parliamentary election run-off on Sunday. Initial results from the legislative elections will be released at 8pm.REUTERS - President Francois Hollande is on track to win a Socialist bloc majority in France’s parliamentary election run-off on Sunday that would bolster his position in looming legislative battles over euro zone crisis policy. A clear majority reliant neither on opposition conservatives nor eurosceptic hard leftists, as opinion polls point to, would be a boon as Hollande prepares legislation to raise taxes, adjust budget spending and ratify an EU fiscal discipline pact. Participation rate at 5pm Participation in the second round of France's parliamentary elections was at 46.16% at 5pm, 2% down from the first round of voting one week ago, according to France's Interior Ministry. Yet with a simultaneous election in Greece threatening to tip Europe into chaos, and the French public in no mood to suffer further economic gloom, Hollande will have no time to bask in glory. Opinion polls and seat projections from last Sunday’s first-round vote suggest the Socialist bloc could achieve the 289 seats needed for a majority in the 577-member National Assembly even without adding seats from its Green Party allies. Added to its control of the Senate and the presidency, that would give the Socialist Party more power than it has ever held and should leave Hollande’s largely social democratic and pro-Europe cabinet broadly intact. The possible entry of Marine Le Pen’s far-right National Front into parliament for the first time since the mid-1980s with up to three seats would be uncomfortable but would not pose any threat to Hollande’s power to govern. But just as his own May 6 election celebrations were kept short by Europe’s ballooning crisis, Hollande flies to Mexico early on Monday, with voting slips barely counted, for the first of a flurry of summits that need to reach watertight accords. A month into his presidency, Hollande’s decision to identify with southern nations weary of austerity measures has sparked a rift with Europe’s chequebook-holder Germany that the Socialist needs to fix fast. Further down the line, Hollande faces challenges keeping eurosceptic Socialist lawmakers fully behind him if he agrees to Germany’s demand for a swift commitment to deeper fiscal and politician integration in Europe. He may also encounter resistance within his party to any decision to slow down spending plans after a public finance audit due at the end of June that is expected to show France poorly placed to meet its deficit-cutting goals. “Hollande’s biggest political test will be to keep his party united if he is forced to adopt economic policies that are unpopular with the electorate,” political analyst Antonio Barroso of Eurasia Group said in a note to clients. No voter honeymoon Polling booths open at 8 a.m. (0600 GMT) and the last ones close 12 hours later, with some concern over turnout as the nation is asked to vote for the fourth time in eight weeks. The abstention rate hit a record of nearly 43 percent last Sunday. Initial results will be released at 8 p.m., the same time the world will learn whether Greece has elected an anti-austerity party whose victory FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRANCE 24 France's parliamentary elections, explained. would throw its future in the euro zone into question and send shockwaves through financial markets. Hollande’s chief ministers, including Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, were elected in round one by scoring more than 50 percent of votes. Those in run-off contests, like Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici, are expected to win their seats. In all, 36 deputies were elected outright last weekend. Of the remaining 541 constituencies, most run-offs are between two candidates, although 34 constituencies will see three-way contests between rivals who all won the qualifying 12.5 percent. A survey by Ipsos-Logica Business Consulting published on Friday, and tallying with other polls, showed Hollande’s Socialist bloc could win between 284 and 313 deputies and that the Greens could take 14 to 20 seats. The radical Left Front coalition, whose firebrand leader Jean-Luc Melenchon was knocked out of the running for a seat representing an economically destitute northern town by Le Pen last week, is set to win just 12 to 13 seats. Le Pen’s National Front is looking at up to three seats, and the conservatives, fractured since their leader Nicolas Sarkozy was ousted as president in May, are set for 192 to 226 seats. The projections are for a bigger parliament win for the left than in the 1997 election, when voters lashed out at the then conservative government’s attempt at welfare reform, and in 1988, just after President Francois Mitterrand’s re-election. That would still leave Hollande short of the two-thirds majority he would need for any constitutional changes, such as legislation to give EU institutions more power over the budget. Hollande faces the risk that opposition lawmakers could demand a referendum in exchange for supporting legislation that many voters would view as undermining French sovereignty. The fact voters are already marking Hollande harshly, giving him scores in the low 60s in popularity surveys, suggests they will react angrily if he announces spending cutbacks or big rises in social contributions to meet deficit targets. Some analysts see street protests ahead. “My hypothesis is that after the (summer) holidays there will be social upheaval as people will no longer be able to express their frustration through voting,” said political scientist Dominique Reynie.
####2012 June 17####France's parliamentary runoff as it happened####Look back at all the action from France's parliamentary runoff as President François Hollande's Socialist Party won an absolute majority and the far-right National Front entered the National Assembly for the first time since 1998.<a href="http://www.coveritlive.com/mobile.php/option=com_mobile/task=viewaltcast/altcast_code=6f0d1360c4" >FRANCE 24's liveblog on round two of the French legislative elections</a>
####2012 June 17####Far right's Le Pen beaten, but niece stages upset####National Front leader Marine Le Pen has lost her parliamentary race by a narrow margin of 118 votes. But her niece's surprise victory in a separate contest ensures the Le Pen family will be represented in France's National Assembly.AFP - France's far-right National Front returned to parliament for the first time since 1998 on Sunday but the anti-immigrant and anti-EU party's leader Marine Le Pen lost her bid for a seat by a handful of votes. Official results from Sunday's run-off parliamentary vote showed the 22-year-old granddaughter of FN founder Jean-Marie Le Pen, Marion Marechal-Le Pen, and lawyer Gilbert Collard were elected in southern constituencies. But his daughter and political heir Marine Le Pen lost her bid for a seat in a former mining constituency near the northern city of Lille by only 118 votes, with Socialist Philippe Kemel scoring 50.11 percent to Le Pen's 49.89 percent. Marine Le Pen said she would demand a recount, nonetheless hailing the party's result as "an enormous success." "We only have reasons to be happy to have achieved spectacular results in dozens of constituencies in the second round," she said. "A reorganisation of (French) political life is under way." The FN was buoyed by Le Pen's record 18 percent showing in last month's presidential vote and a 13.6 percent result in last Sunday's first round of the parliamentary election -- which she said said confirmed its status as France's "third political force." Le Pen, a seasoned politician before she took over the party leadership last year, has sought to soften the image of the National Front she inherited from her firebrand father. But critics say she represents the same old hard-right party in new clothes, playing on voters' sensitivities over France's Muslim population, estimated at up to six million, and playing to nationalism. President Francois Hollande's Socialists won an absolute majority in the vote, and the two expected FN lawmakers will have little impact on his agenda, but Collard said he would ensure the FN's voters would be represented in the National Assembly. "I plan to make the voices heard of a people who have had enough," he said. "My mission will be to be a democratic pain in the arse, I will not let anything go." Collard also hit out at France's mainstream parties for attempting to prevent the FN from taking seats in the election. "We are only two (deputies) in parliament, while we represent more than six million voters -- we are there in the name of the Republic, in the name of democracy," he said. Jean-Marie Le Pen hailed his granddaughter's victory, which will make her the youngest sitting member of the National Assembly. "The goal was very much achieved. She is even above the estimate I had for her," he said, adding: "A part of me is happy, but another part is grieving. Marine was beaten by very little." The FN has long been shut out of parliament, though it had 35 deputies in the Assembly between 1986 and 1988 when France experimented with a proportional election system. Until Sunday, the party had managed to elect only three other lawmakers under the majority system since Le Pen founded it in 1972. The party has complained that France's first-past-the-post parliamentary election system excludes smaller parties in favour of the country's traditional political heavyweights. "We must ask ourselves whether this electoral method is democratic," the party's spokesman Florian Philippot said after Sunday's vote. But though it only won two seats, the FN's impact on this election year was widely felt. Ex-president Nicolas Sarkozy and his UMP party shifted increasingly to the right throughout the campaign to woo FN voters.    
####2012 June 17####Royal concedes bitter defeat in La Rochelle####Ségolène Royal, the 2007 presidential runner-up and former partner of President François Hollande, has been defeated by a Socialist dissident who was controversially backed by France's new first lady earlier this week.AFP - Segolene Royal crashed out of France’s parliamentary election on Sunday after a bitter battle with a left-wing rebel backed by the woman who replaced her as partner of Socialist President Francois Hollande. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 France's parliamentary runoff as it happened Royal, Hollande’s companion for 25 years and mother of his four children, announced her own defeat before official results were released, calling the outcome a “betrayal” of the voters. She was the Socialist presidential candidate in 2007, losing to conservative Nicolas Sarkozy. Royal was defeated in the western city of La Rochelle by Olivier Falorni, who was expelled from the Socialist Party for defying her nomination but says he remains loyal to the president. “I respect her disappointment,” Falorni told reporters. Royal, who had hoped to become the speaker of parliament, suffered the double humiliation of losing to a dissident left-winger who not only refused to step aside but won public support in a Tweet from First Lady Valerie Trierweiler. Asked whether Trierweiler’s message had contributed to her defeat, Royal told France 2 television: “It certainly did not help, to put it mildly.” She quoted writer Victor Hugo as saying: “Traitors always pay for their treachery in the end.” Royal’s failure to win a parliamentary seat was the latest of several political and personal sebacks for the 58-year-old after an illustrious career. The former environment minister beat ex-partner Hollande to the starting blocks in the 2007 presidential race, winning the Socialist nomination over veterans Laurent Fabius and Dominique Strauss-Kahn, but was out-fought and out-debated by Sarkozy. Weeks later, she announced her separation from Hollande, making public the break-up of France’s political dream couple, who met in the late 1970s at the elite Ecole Nationale d’Administration civil service college. In 2011, Royal competed in the Socialist primary contest, shedding tears when she finished a distant fourth as Hollande was sent into a battle that he ultimately won. Her defeat leaves Hollande with a thorny problem. Political analysts say the president will need to find a face-saving role for his former partner and reassert his own political authority, which appeared undermined by Trierweiler’s Tweet. “My political combat continues,” said Royal.  
####2012 June 18####Saved! Oh no, wait...####The breather proves short-lived after Greek elections that see the pro-euro centre-right come out narrowly ahead. As markets worry about the eurozone’s daunting debt level, François Picard’s panel argues over whether it’s Berlin that now faces the heat amid pressure to come up with a "grand plan" at next week’s EU summit.Thrasy PETROPOULOS. Managing editor, Athens News - from Athens; Craig COPETAS. Paris-based journalist; Harold HAU. Professor of Finance, University of Geneva & Swiss Finance Institute; Julia CAGÉ. Economist at Harvard University and Paris School of economics. Produced by François Picard, Anelise Borges, Mary Colombel, Wassim Nasr. Watch the second part here. 
####2012 June 18####Le Pen’s niece leads National Front’s return to French parliament####National Front leader Marine Le Pen has lost her bid for a parliamentary seat by a narrow margin of 118 votes, out of 55,000. But her niece's surprise victory ensures the Le Pen family will be represented in France's National Assembly.French far-right leader Marine Le Pen lost her bid for a parliamentary seat in the northern working-class town of Hénin-Beaumont by a mere 118 votes (out of a total of more than 55,000 ballots) in the second round of parliamentary elections on Sunday. Her party, the National Front, has demanded a recount. Nonetheless, she declared on Sunday night, "We only have reasons to be happy to have achieved spectacular results." Indeed, the National Front has gained a foothold in parliament for the first time since the mid-1980s, with two seats won in constituencies in southern France. One of the new far-right lawmakers is 22-year-old Marion Maréchal-Le Pen, niece of Marine Le Pen and granddaughter of party founder Jean-Marine Le Pen. Her grandfather convinced her to stand as candidate for Carpentras, an agricultural town, to restore the National Front’s image after it was accused of being directly involved in the vandalizing of the town’s Jewish cemetery two decades ago. Delivering a toned-down version of her party's hardline policies to a younger generation of voters, Marechal-Le Pen, while saying she does not back all the National Front's ideas, insists her success shows the party is gaining a prominent spot in French politics. "If the elites listened, they would understand why French young people like me are joining our ranks," she said in a victory address, vowing to defend national sovereignty and giving priority, in such things as employment or housing, to French nationals. The other newly-elected National Front lawmaker is lawyer Gilbert Collard, who was chairman of Marine Le Pen’s support committee. "I plan to make the voices heard of a people who have had enough," he said. "My mission will be to be a democratic pain in the arse, I will not let anything go." The National Front has long been shut out of parliament by the first-past-the-post electoral system, although it had 35 lawmakers in the National Assembly between 1986 and 1988 when France experimented with a proportional voting system. Since firebrand founder Jean-Marie Le Pen handed leadership over to his daughter, the party has revamped its image from anti-Semitic and racist to a more mainstream, anti-immigration party. In May, Marine Le Pen placed third in the country’s presidential race.  
####2012 June 18####Greens secure ‘historic’ gains in French parliamentary poll####France’s Green party won 17 seats in the country’s general election Sunday, an unprecedented score that makes it prominent enough to form its own parliamentary group, giving it more clout in political decision-making.France’s Green party, Europe Ecologie-Les Verts, won 17 seats in the newly-elected French parliament, an unprecedented score for a party that has so far had a minor role in national politics. “It is a first in the history of this republic,” Green senator Jean-Vincent Placé told FRANCE 24. “We have established a solid position to exert influence on public policies.” Only four of its members were part of the previous national assembly, and its candidate in the presidential race, Eva Joly, won a mere 2.3% of the votes in May. But the Greens were able to make major gains in the June legislative polls, thanks to agreements with the majority Socialist Party, whereby the Socialists promised not to field their own candidates in some 60 constituencies across the country in exchange for Green support elsewhere. The power of a group Now with 17 lawmakers, the ecologists are in a position to form their own parliamentary group – for which a minimum of 15 members, usually of the same political colour, are required. This will allow them to weigh in more heavily on political debates and policy-making. Speaking time is allotted according to the numerical strength of parliamentary groups, as are powerful positions within commissions and executive boards. Although the Socialists and their allies don’t need the environmentalists to enjoy a comfortable majority, the Greens intend to make good use of their new power. “I tell my Socialist friends that they may be in a position of power, but above all they should not take advantage of it,” Placé said. The environmentalists have also made it into the government: Cécile Duflot, who was elected in Paris, is expected to let her substitute, Danièle Hoffman-Rispal, step in so that she can keep her position as minister of housing.
####2012 June 18####Hollande to pursue ambitious European growth plan####French President François Hollande has presented European leaders with a series of growth-boosting measures, including €120 billion worth of measures to stimulate growth across the continent, French media reported Sunday.AP - Francois Hollande is the man in charge after his Socialist Party swept France’s parliamentary election. Voters welcomed the French president’s vision of injecting government money into Europe’s economies in hopes of helping the joint euro currency stave off disaster. Socialists now have an unprecedented lock on politics in France, and plan to use it to raise taxes on big banks and oil companies, levy a 75-percent tax on incomes higher than €1 million ($1.26 million) a year, and hire 60,000 teachers. Hollande’s strong domestic mandate will let him push back in global economic talks against the budget cuts being demanded by Germany, which Greece and other indebted countries say are driving them deeper into the financial abyss by suffocating growth. France’s election Sunday also gave the far right National Front a toehold in parliament, a small but symbolic victory for a party that wants to stop immigration, dump the euro currency and decries the so-called “Islamization” of France. The conservative UMP party of former President Nicolas Sarkozy, which dominated the outgoing parliament, suffered the biggest losses. The balloting to elect 577 lawmakers for France’s lower - and more powerful - house of parliament came on the same day that conservatives won a parliamentary election in Greece. With final results still coming in, pollsters estimated France’s Socialists and their closest allies will hold between 313 and 315 seats, well over the 289 needed for a majority and exempting them from horse-trading with far-leftists who oppose some of Hollande’s pro-European policies. “This score exemplifies strong confidence in the president,” said Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici, who won his own race for an Assembly seat. “This gives a spinal column to the government and strengthens it ... our commitments will be honored. We will not do any austerity.” Sarkozy’s UMP party went from 304 seats in the old Assembly to an estimated 214 in the new one, after Sarkozy himself lost his re-election bid to Hollande just six weeks ago. Hollande now has a free hand to push forward with his plans. He wants to crack down on tax shelters and encourage companies to reinvest their profits. Also on tap is requiring banks to split their traditional deposit-and-loan activities from their speculative bets in the financial markets. Hollande’s government has already made good on a controversial plan to lower the retirement age for some French workers to 60 from 62. He also slashed the salaries of government ministers by 30 percent - a nod to a public wary of the much-criticized bling of Sarkozy’s reign. Hollande’s pro-growth attitude is also attracting attention elsewhere in Europe. France is the eurozone’s second-biggest economy and, along with powerhouse Germany, has a major role in EU policy and providing bailouts to weaker countries. Hollande presented other European leaders last week with a new “growth pact” including €120 billion ($151 billion) worth of measures around the continent to stimulate growth, the Journal du Dimanche newspaper reported. A French official confirmed the report but would not provide details. The French-German tandem has come under strain in recent months, not least because Chancellor Angela Merkel has opposed Hollande’s vocal push for government stimulus and is defending an austerity package that she worked out with Sarkozy, a fellow conservative. Even against the recent throw-the-bums-out mindset in many parts of Europe, the turnaround for France’s Socialists was remarkable. The party was riven for much of the past decade by personal infighting and ideological discord. On Sunday, the Socialists gained more than 100 seats in the Assembly - nearly all from the conservatives, discredited in the eyes of many voters after years of economic difficulties and high joblessness. Last fall, the Socialists seized control of the upper house of parliament, the Senate. No matter who is in charge, there’s plenty of challenges ahead. France’s debts are huge and its unemployment rate recently rose to 10 percent - the highest rate in 13 years. The little-known ratings agency Egan-Jones Ratings downgraded French state debt to BBB+ from A- on Thursday, warning that French banks may soon come under strain. “The work before us is immense. Nothing will be easy,” Socialist Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said, acknowledging that France’s financial situation is “difficult.” The anti-immigration National Front party won two seats in Sunday’s election - the most it has had since 1988, when the political system was more favorable to extremist candidates. Party leader Marine Le Pen lost her quest for a seat in the industrial north by just 118 votes, but her 22-year-old niece - Marion Marechal-Le Pen - won her race in the southeast and will become France’s youngest lawmaker. Marine Le Pen has revamped the party to try to shed its reputation as racist and anti-Semitic. She placed third in the presidential race. The party, known for its sharp-tongued critics, will get a high-profile platform from which to grill Hollande’s ministers during weekly question time in the often-boisterous Assembly. “This is a first step toward future elections,” Marechal-Le Pen told BFM-TV. In an election subplot, prominent Socialist Segolene Royal - the mother of Hollande’s four children and the runner-up to Sarkozy in the 2007 presidential vote - lost her race in western France and her bid to become Parliament speaker. Her rival was a breakaway Socialist who had drawn the support of Hollande’s current companion, journalist Valerie Trierweiler. Sunday’s result also exposed voter fatigue, coming so soon after Hollande’s own victory on May 6. The turnout of 56 percent was the lowest recorded in modern France. In a well-off area of central Paris, voter Eve Baume said she cast her ballot for the local socialist “because I’ve been waiting for change for a long time.” “I wanted to support Francois Hollande, the government and its projects,” she said. Pascal Albe, a voter from the working-class Paris suburb of Ivry-sur-Seine, said he generally votes for the right but he thought Hollande should have a Socialist-led parliament. “Otherwise the country will be paralyzed, and especially now, we don’t need that,” he said.
####2012 June 18####Socialists free to push through reform agenda####The resounding Socialist Party victory in Sunday's parliamentary elections will allow new French President François Hollande to follow through with promised economic reforms to stimulate growth across Europe, a senior minister said Monday.REUTERS - A resounding Socialist victory in weekend parliamentary elections will allow President Francois Hollande to press ahead with reforms to tame France’s deficit and promote economic growth in Europe, a senior minister said on Monday. The Socialists, who won a comfortable majority in Sunday’s parliamentary elections, will use a special session of parliament next month to axe tax breaks and increase taxes for large corporations, particularly banks and energy companies. The measures are part of Hollande’s twin track drive to balance France’s budget by 2017 and persuade Europe’s paymaster Germany to back his call for a stimulus package of more than $100 billion to boost growth. Election results for mainland France showed the Socialists and their affiliates won 307 seats, comfortably exceeding the 289 required for a majority in the National Assembly. Definitive figures including overseas territories were due later on Monday, with polls predicting the Socialists could win up to 320 seats. With the left already controlling the Senate upper house of parliament, that would free the Socialists from relying on the votes of the anti-austerity, eurosceptic Left Front or the conservative UMP opposition. Interior Minister Manuel Valls said the government would waste no time in pressing ahead with promised reforms. “We need to sort out this country’s finances, to ensure we achieve a balanced budget by 2017, and at the same time pursue our priorities in terms of growth, employment, education and security,” said Valls, promising tax reforms to ensure that the richest French pay their share. Valls said that a resurgence in the vote for the National Front - which won two parliamentary seats and returns to parliament for the first time since the mid-1980s - was due to widespread disenchantment with France’s economic situation. “We need to mobilise our European partners because piling more austerity on top of austerity will lead to tragedy and a deep rift between the peoples of Europe and their politicians.” With unemployment at a 13-year high of 10 percent and economic growth stagnating, Hollande faces a delicate balancing act in reducing the government’s deficit and keeping the euro zone’s second largest economy out of the sights of financial market speculators attacking Spain and Italy. The government may use a review of government finances by the state auditor, due by the end of June, to temper its campaign spending promises. Hollande was to address a summit of G20 leaders in Mexico on Monday. He travels to Rome on Friday for four-way talks with Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy ahead of an EU leaders summit at the end of June which is due to discuss closer economic integration in the bloc. Socialists welcome Greek result Government spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem told France Inter radio that Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault could name a permanent cabinet as early as Thursday, replacing the interim government named after Hollande won May’s presidential election. With all the major cabinet members, including Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici, having won their legislative seats, no major changes were expected. Vallaud-Belkacem welcomed the victory of the conservative, pro-bailout New Democracy party in Sunday’s parliamentary elections in Greece. The result, relegating the far-left SYRIZA party to second place, sent European stocks and the euro currency higher on Monday. “It is true that we are pleased that they have chosen the euro,” she said. “We are ready to help them with this. President Hollande has fought to put growth back on the European agenda precisely to send a positive signal to the Greeks.” Following the defeat of the Socialists’ former presidential candidate Segolene Royal - Hollande’s ex-partner of 25 years - in the western city of La Rochelle, Vallaud-Belkacem paid tribute to the role she had played in the Socialist’s national victory. “We need her and she can still play a role. It’s up to her to decide,” she said.  
####2012 June 19####Record number of women and minorities in new French parliament####With more women and members of foreign descent than any previous National Assembly, France's newly-elected parliament has moved a step closer to mirroring French society, even as ethnic-minority groups demand more diversity in politics.Long a bastion of white male power, France’s National Assembly now counts more women and members of visible minorities than any previous French legislature. Among the 577 members of parliament elected in the country’s last general election in June,155 (27%) are women while nine belong to ethnic minorities. By comparison, only 107 seats went to female candidates, and only one to a black candidate in Metropolitan France, in the previous election in 2007. “We are making progress; parity between men and women has become a prominent issue now,” Réjane Sénac, a sociologist specialised in gender studies at Sciences-Po, told the AFP. Most of these new lawmakers rode into the National Assembly with the majority Socialist Party and its allies: among the 280 Socialists elected, there are 106 women, including nine among the 18 Greens. On the other hand, the right-wing UMP party and its allies is only represented by 27 women versus 194 men, prompting the feminist organisation Osez le féminisme to award it a “medal for political sexism”. All this despite the fact that male-female parity in political institutions is a principle that has been enshrined in the French constitution since 2008. Overall, France, which was previously ranked 18th out of 27 European Union countries in terms of gender parity (measured as the proportion of women in parliament) is now in ninth position, with roughly 27%. The European average is 24.6%. Still, Dominique Poggi, another sociologist and expert in gender issues, believes the “time of politics being run by aged white men” in France is over. “Women can now find a place, as can young people and members of ethnic minorities,” she told FRANCE 24. Not quite a rainbow parliament yet French citizens of foreign descent have also made inroads into politics, representing eight new members of parliament (nine were elected, but Algerian-born Kader Arif is letting his substitute Emilienne Poumirol step in so that he can retain his position as junior minister for veterans). Seybah Dagoma, a 34-year-old lawyer of Tchadian descent and founding member of a left-wing think tank, was elected in a Parisian constituency. Also joining the ranks of Socialist lawmakers are Razzy Hammadi, born of an Algerian father and a Tunisian mother and former president of the Socialists’ youth movement, as well as Malek Boutih, of Algerian origin and former director of the SOS Racisme rights group. Kheira Bouziane and Chaynesse Khirouni, both Algerian-born, won seats in the east of France, while Corinne Narassiguin, from an overseas French territory, and Pouria Amirshahi, Iranian-born, are among the 11 representatives of French citizens living abroad. But the French council of black organisations, known by its acronym CRAN, says these eight new ethnically-diverse faces are not enough. It points out that they represent less than 2% of the National Assembly, while 10% of French citizens are foreign-born. The CRAN has called for a law to ensure ethnic diversity in politics. The new French parliament is also one of fresh faces: 234 (40%) of its members did not hold office in the previous legislature.  
####2012 August 14####'100 days...now what?'####French papers, Tuesday 14th August: L’Humanité assesses the achievements of President François Hollande after 100 days in power; Les Echos likewise looks at his economic strategy so far; Le Figaro analyses what French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius hopes to achieve during his trip to the Middle East; Libération warns there could be hidden dangers in your suntan lotion.  Get the France 24 press review on your iPhone or become a fan on Facebook.   Some articles from today’s French press review:   L’Humanité : ‘100 days..now what ?’   Les Echos :  ‘Looking for Hollandic economics’   Le Figaro :‘Fabius heads to Syria’   Libération : ‘Factor Danger’  
####2013 July 05####New Sarkozy Scandal and the French Queen of Wimbledon####Former French President Nicolas Sarkozy overspent state funds during his 2012 campaign and as a result the UMP stands to lose €11m. Meanwhile revelations that France’s 'Big Brother' is spying on people’s emails, phone records and online activity. Join us for the French press review. With a dominating performance, Marion Bartoli advances to the women's Wimbledon final.
####2012 June 10####French left closes in on parliamentary majority####Exit polls showed left-wing parties and their allies with 46.9% of the votes in the first round of France’s parliamentary elections on Sunday, while the conservative UMP garnered 34.6%, in a ballot marked by low voter turnout.Left-wing parties inched toward a parliamentary majority on Sunday, after exit polls placed the Socialist Party and its allies ahead of the conservative UMP party in the first round of Sunday's elections. The UMP garnered an estimated 34.6 percent of the vote compared to the Socialist Party's 34.4 percent, in a ballot marked by low voter turnout. However, the Socialists' numbers combined with other left-wing parties secured the left an overall 46.9 percent of votes, according to estimates by the polling firm Ipsos. French National Assembly Seat Projections The second round of the election, to be held on June 17, is expected to confirm the leftward trend in France, which saw François Hollande win the country’s presidential elections on May 6. Speaking on France 2 television, Socialist Party chief Martine Aubry said French voters had “expressed their support for change” and their “wish to amplify” Hollande’s victory. The first estimates dispelled notions of an overwhelming victory, or so-called “pink surge”, for Aubry and Hollande’s camp. The Socialist Party needs to win 289 seats of the 577-seat chamber to enjoy an absolute majority. Results suggested Socialists may have to turn to allies in the Green Party and lawmakers from far-left parties in order to secure a majority in the lower-house National Assembly. Projections showed the Socialists on pace to take between 275 and 305 seats, while the UMP was tipped to send between 205 and 235 members to parliament. While the Socialist Party was expected to extend its advantage in the National Assembly with an additional 35 to 51 allied lawmakers, such an alliance would give the communist-allied Left Front and the Green Party greater leverage to shape policy. "The game is not over yet", said UMP party chief Jean-Francois Copé, who estimates showed was heading to a runoff against Green candidate Caroline Pinet in the Meaux department east of Paris, and who encouraged his party’s sympathisers to vote en masse in the second round. Awaiting results from key battles Exit polls began to give voters an idea of the key match-ups in the second round, even if all the official results were not expected before Monday. Many prominent French politicians were running as MP candidates and election night delivered a few surprises. The UMP’s Copé claimed 45 percent of votes and escaped a dangerous three-way runoff that would have pitted him against an FN candidate. He is now expected to beat the Green's Pinet, who earned 29 percent support.   Ségolene Royal, the Socialist Party’s unsuccessful presidential candidate in 2007 and Hollande’s former partner, finished first in western city of La Rochelle with 32 percent of votes, bettering a rival from her own party, Olivier Falorni, who also advanced to the second round.   FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRANCE 24 France's parliamentary elections, explained. The far-right’s Marine Le Pen topped the ballot in the highly publicised election in the northern city of Hénin-Beaumont. While many expected a close duel between Le Pen and hard-left leader Jean-Luc Mélenchon, she claimed over 40 percent of votes and was heading to a runoff with Socialist Party candidate Philippe Kemel.   Former UMP prime minister François Fillon – one of the conservative leaders tipped to take over the party after Sarkozy’s election defeat – got more than 40 percent of votes in Paris’ upscale second constituency, but did not avoid a runoff.   French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault, who has posted high approval ratings as France’s new PM, is sure to keep his MP seat after claiming more than 56 percent of votes in his western stronghold of Nantes.   Centrist figurehead François Bayrou is fighting for his political life in the southwestern city of Pau. He will be in a three-way runoff against a Socialist Party and UMP candidate on his home turf. “The results are difficult and announce a close second round. The reason for the results are clear. A large part of my supporters did not understand my decision to vote for François Hollande in the presidential elections", said Bayrou, whose MoDem party will struggle to send representatives to the National Assembly. According to Ipsos, the far-right National Front Party came in third overall with 13.7 percent of votes. The Left Front coalition won 6.8 percent, while the Greens took 5.7 percent of ballots. Centrists, as well as other far-right and far-left parties, failed to clear 2 percent. The UMP was fighting to avoid a shameful double-defeat, after former president Nicolas Sarkozy lost the presidential runoff last month. It seemed increasingly difficult for the conservative party to win enough constituencies to force Hollande into a cohabitation, or coalition government. Low turnout hurts far-right hopes Ipsos put the abstention rate for the poll at 42.9 percent, a record high for legislative elections in France. According to the ministry of the interior, voter participation had reached 48.31 percent by 5pm. That figure was down slightly from the previous parliamentary election in 2007, in which voter participation was at 49.28 at the same time. The French pollster said the second round would likely see 57 runoffs between three opposing candidates. After claiming an all-time high in the presidential elections, the far-right FN was banking on  sending members to the National Assembly. Yet in order to advance to the second round, parliamentary candidates must earn at least 12.5 percent of all eligible voters.  Despite garnering more than 13 percent of votes on Sunday, the low voter participation rate means that the FN has few chances to advance to the June 17 runoffs. The party could once again see itself excluded from parliament, with projections showing between 0 and 2 seats for them in parliament. Despite Le Pen’s claims that the poll “confirmed the FN’s position as France’s third political force,” her party could once again see itself excluded from parliament, with projections showing a maximum of 2 seats for them in the National Assembly.  
####2012 June 17####Record abstention clouds French parliamentary poll####Socialists hope to hand President François Hollande a strong mandate to rule by securing a majority of seats in a parliamentary run-off marred by record-low voter turnout.Click here for FRANCE 24's live blog of the French parliamentary election. French voters headed to the polls on Sunday to elect new parliament members in a second-round ballot that seemed to be heading for a record-low voter participation. The Socialist Party hoped to cap off its victory in last month’s presidential poll by securing a majority in the 577-seat National Assembly, the lower house of parliament, which the conservative UMP party has controlled since 2002. Participation rate at 5pm Participation in the second round of France's parliamentary elections was at 46.16% at 5pm, 2% down from the first round of voting one week ago, according to France's Interior Ministry. The first round on June 10 saw the Socialist bloc take a small lead, claiming 29.35 percent of the vote to the UMP’s 27.13 percent. Polling stations were due to close by 8pm in the country’s largest cities. According to the Interior Ministry, 46.42 percent of all eligible voters had cast a ballot by 5pm local time, down a further 2 percent from last week's record-low turnout. A strong mandate for Hollande The Socialists and their left-wing allies, which include the Greens and the communist-allied Left Front, have been riding a wave of support since the May 6 second round of the presidential election, in which Hollande defeated the incumbent president, Nicolas Sarkozy. With the Senate already controlled by the left, an absolute majority for the Socialists in the National Assembly would hand Hollande the parliamentary backing he needs to pass promised reforms. Hollande has said he would raise taxes for France’s highest earners in order to reverse cuts in public spending, with additional expenditures pledged for the state school system, among other sectors. Hollande is also championing new spending on the European level as a way out of the continent’s near-negative economic growth – a position that puts him at odds with Germany’s strict austerity bent. Symbolic battles The vote was a critical test for the far-right National Front (FN) party, which was poised to return to parliament for the first time since 1998. FN leader Marine Le Pen, who has been credited for renewing the party’s image, faced a tough election battle in the northern constituency of Hénin-Beaumont. While she finished ahead in the first round, all the other candidates rallied behind her Socialist Party rival. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRANCE 24 France's parliamentary elections, explained. The fate of the FN was also expected to help shape the future direction of the centre-right UMP. While some UMP leaders and voters have favoured electoral alliances with the far right, such an entente is still banned by the party’s national leadership. The fate of centrist figurehead François Bayrou and his MoDem party also hung in the balance. Bayrou was facing a difficult three-way runoff in his southwest constituency of Bearn, and the MoDem could fail to send any members to parliament this spring. Few if any surprises were expected for Socialist Party candidates, but there was intense focus on the western city of La Rochelle, where Socialist heavyweight Ségolene Royal was tipped to lose against a party dissident. Royal, who lost the 2007 presidential election against Sarkozy and failed in her bid to become party chief in 2008, was embarrassed between the two rounds by first lady Valérie Trierweiler’s decision to endorse her rival.
####2012 June 17####Hollande's Socialists secure majority in French parliament####French Socialists have won an absolute majority of seats in Sunday’s parliamentary elections, giving President François Hollande a free hand to pass his promised growth-boosting measures.Socialists took control of France’s parliament for the first time in ten years on Sunday in elections marked by high voter abstention. The Socialist Party (PS) together with left-leaning independants won 314 seats in the lower-house National Assembly, compared to 191 seats for the centre-right Union for a Popular Movement (UMP), giving President François Hollande’s party an absolute majority of the 577 parliamentary seats, exit polls showed. FRENCH ELECTIONS 2012 FRANCE 24 France's parliamentary elections, explained. Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault thanked voters for their “coherent choice” of a Socialist-led National Assembly in a televised speech broadcast as estimates were still trickling in. “Our parliamentary democracy will be restored,” said Ayrault, adding that the “voice of the opposition” would be heard. The parliamentary election confirmed France's leftward swing, with the Ipsos polling agency suggesting the Greens had claimed 16 seats and the communist-allied Left Front a further 10. The Socialist tally, combined with that of its left-wing allies, will give Hollande the backing he needs to implement promised reforms. The Senate is already controlled by the left. Hollande has pledged to raise taxes for France’s highest earners in order to reverse cuts in public spending, with additional expenditures for the state school system, among other sectors. Sunday's result marked a second stinging defeat for the UMP, just one month after former president Nicolas Sarkozy failed to secure a second term in office. The former president has faded from public view after his defeat, leaving a party torn by internal divisions. UMP party chief Jean-François Copé, who won his own runoff in the city of Meaux near the French capital, recognised the left’s victory. Speaking at a press conference, Copé said his party would lead a “responsible but vigilant opposition” in the National Assembly, and warned party members against “personal quarrels”. Ipsos said the abstention rate for the second-round ballot had gone over 44 percent, a new record for French parliamentary elections since the end of World War Two. Foot in the door for far right The National Front (FN) cried victory on Sunday night after 22-year-old candidate Marion Maréchal Le Pen, the granddaughter of the party’s founder and historic figurehead, Jean-Marie Le Pen, became the youngest-ever MP to serve in parliament. Gilbert Collard, the FN’s lawyer and a candidate in the southern Gard department, also won a parliamentary seat for the anti-immigration party. But there was disappointment for party leader Marine Le Pen, who lost her parliamentary contest in the northern Hénin-Beaumont constituency by a handful of votes. “The national movement has once more entered the National Assembly, and its an enormous success,” Marine Le Pen told supporters in the northern town, a key battlefield that had dominated headlines during the campaign. “Beyond my personal case, we have reasons to celebrate,” said Le Pen, who won the first round of the election one week ago and claimed 18 percent of votes nationwide in May’s presidential ballot. Despite being the third-largest party in France, the FN had been excluded from France’s parliament since 1998. Hopes dashed Sunday’s parliamentary election punished some UMP members closely linked to Sarkozy’s former conservative government. Former interior minister Claude Guéant and former professional training junior minister Nadine Morano both lost their runoffs. Michèle Alliot-Marie, a veteran UMP figure and one-time defence and foreign minister, lost her seat in the south-western Pyrénées-Atlantiques department. However, Sarkozy’s former campaign spokeswoman, Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, and his last health minister, Xavier Bertrand, narrowly avoided the scalping. The poll also dealt a blow to several prominent politicians outside the UMP. Ségolene Royal, the Socialist Party’s unsuccessful presidential candidate in 2007, lost in the western city of La Rochelle against a rebel candidate from her own party. The defeat capped a miserable week for Royal, President Hollande’s former partner, after France’s new first lady Valérie Trierweiler controversially backed her rival on the micro-blogging website Twitter. Jack Lang, a veteran Socialist political figure and former culture minister, lost in the eastern Vosges department. Centrist figurehead François Bayrou was also ejected from his parliamentary seat in the south-western city of Pau. His once-important MoDem party looked like it would be reduced to just two members in France’s new parliament.
