####January 22, 2013####Ahmadinejad Causes Major Turnover in Iran’s Provincial Governments before Election####From June through December of 2012, the Iranian government changed 11 provincial governors. Iran has 31 provinces in total, which means within 6 months the government changed 35 percent of its provincial governors. At the same time, within 8 months, from May through December of 2012, around 25 percent of the heads of Iran’s county administrations have been replaced at the orders of provincial governors. There are 402 counties in Iran and, according to reports by Iranian news agencies, at least 97 heads of Iran’s county administrations were replaced. Interactive map to demonstrate 97 Iran’s county admins changed recently There were also changes within the provincial governments such as the replacement of mayors and deputy governors Besides these sweeping personnel changes, on January 1, 2013, an MP said the government has recently given each of Iran’s provincial governors “carte blanche” to hire “4,000 employees.” Although Ahmadinejad has said the hirings are necessitated by lack of staff due to the natural attrition of retirement, his opponents say the moves are motivated by the June 2013 presidential election. Provincial governments and their counterparts, county governments, operate as part of the Interior Ministry. Therefore, they are the main bodies charged with overseeing the election. Interactive map to demonstrate 11 Iran’s provincial governors changed recently Personnel changes are not rare in Ahmadinejad’s tenure. Just at the Interior Ministry, the President has appointed four interior ministers and one acting-minister since he took office in 2005 for the first time. According to the “Khabar online” news website, these ministers changed at least 71 provincial governors since taking office. Ahmadinejad’s first Interior Minister, Mostafa Pourmohammadi, replaced 38 provincial governors. Later, an acting Interior Minister, Mehdi Hashemi, changed three governors. The next Interior Minister, Ali Kordan,changed six provincial governors, until a scandal involving Kordan’s false claim to have a Ph.D. from Oxford led to his replacement. The next Interior Minister, Sadegh Mahsouli, replaced two provincial governors during his tenure. His successor and the current Interior Minister, Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar, has already changed at least 22 governors. During the past few months, dozens of MPs and conservative figures have criticized the spate of leadership changes within the provincial bodies. In response, Ahmadinejad has repeatedly admitted the recent changes were not aimless, but insisted that these appointments have nothing to do with the upcoming presidential election. He said the government has “no intention” to “affect the people’s choice.” The eleventh Iranian presidential election of Iran’s Islamic Republic is planned for June 14, 2013.
####February 21, 2013####Ahmadinejad election move stirs reaction and speculation####Photo: Mehr News Agency Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s warning that he might not approve the election for Iran’s Medical Council has led some to speculate the move may have broader electoral implications. Ahmadinejad’s warning has provoked widespread criticism from Iranian political figures, with some interpreting the President’s move as a warning about the upcoming presidential election. In a letter to Iran’s Medical Council, which was published in the Iranian media on February 13, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad criticized the disqualification of Medical Council election candidates, saying they were disqualified for “no legal reason.” He warned that if disqualified candidates were not reconsidered, “the election is illegal and in my view is invalid.” Iran’s Medical Council election for choosing the council’s board of directors is scheduled for Friday, February 22. The election is supervised by three members of the parliament, two representatives of the Ministry of Health, one representative of the Interior Ministry and one representative of the Attorney General’s office. Since the president does not have the power to alone invalidate the Iran Medical Council Election, some see Ahmadinejad’s move as a symbolic act to warn about the upcoming presidential election. Iranian news website “Alef,” which is affiliated with Ahmad Tavakoli, a conservative MP and one of Ahmadinejad’s strong opponents, wrote on February 16 that Ahmadinejad’s act was a warning to Iran’s influential Guardian Council. It is believed the Guardian Council will not approve Ahmadinejad’s preferred candidate for the presidency, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, to stand for election. Alef wrote that “With his symbolic act, Ahmadinejad officially announced that if Mashaei is disqualified, he will not hold the presidential election.” Accordingly, on February 20 The Times wrote “President Ahmadinejad of Iran has warned that he could scrap this summer’s presidential election, threatening to drag the Islamic Republic into a constitutional crisis as he attempts to retain power.” Ahmadinejad’s letter was also followed by criticism from dozens within the Iranian regime, saying the president does not have the legal right to interfere in Iran’s elections. Reformist politician, Ali Shakouri Rad, is among Ahmadinejad’s opponents. His interpretation was that “Ahmadinejad’s message is for the presidential election. He is pointing that if his preferred candidate is not approved, he will not let the presidential election to be run. Mr. Ahmadinejad is engineering the election.” The 11th presidential election of Iran’s Islamic Republic is scheduled for June 14, 2013.
####February 1, 2013####Ahmadinejad’s 2nd-Term: Promises Kept, Broken and Forgotten####Photo: Fars News AgencyEvaluating a presidency is always difficult. When it comes to Iran, with its complex political system, such an assessment is even more challenging. Iran’s president lacks direct control over major issues including foreign policy, the economy, and unelected institutions such as the judiciary and armed forces. Nonetheless, the President does wield considerable power in shaping the national agenda. To his detractors, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s second-term might be evaluated as a failure due to Iran’s persistently struggling economy. To his supporters, the President has made an effort to fix systemic problems, particularly economic challenges, that were beyond his power to affect. While the major characteristics that experts and public polls use to evaluate Ahmadinejad’s second term vary from survey to survey, Iran Election Watch chose to focus on the promises he made during his presidential campaign in 2009. Considering the re-election pledges made by President Ahmadinejad, our investigation shows that the only area where the President fulfilled his campaign promise was the nuclear issue. We have systematically reviewed Ahmadinejad’s plans and promises from the 2009 campaign and have categorized them into six broad categories: Economic Reform Nuclear Program Shrinking Government Fighting Corruption Housing Construction Inflation & Employment Campaign promises are inherently difficult to enact as events often move quickly in the months and years after a vote. Nonetheless, as Iran prepares for its 2013 election, it is beneficial to look back at the promises from 2009. While Ahmadinejad largely followed his campaign pledge on the nuclear issue, his conduct of other matters has not always been in line with his campaign rhetoric. Economic Reform One of Ahmadinejad’s main campaign pledges was to trim bloated subsidies to reduce government spending.   The first phase of the subsidy cut plan was enacted on December 18, 2010, in an attempt to wean the country from generous food and fuel subsidies, which guaranteed basic staples at low prices. President Ahmadinejad once called this move the “biggest economic plan of the past 50 years.” The plan was supposed to “gradually” eliminate the subsidies for various commodities such as fuel, food, water, and electricity, but Parliament repeatedly criticized the government for what it called “speedy” subsidy elimination.   The government said it would inject back some part of the money saved from subsidy cuts to citizens as cash handouts. This amounted to 50 percent of budget savings in the beginning, which later increased to 80 percent. However in the end, as soaring inflation rocked the Rial, the move squeezed the national economy. The government faced a budget shortage and had to borrow deeply from Iran’s Central Bank to cover the cash handouts. Since the reforms were implemented, fuel and food prices have soared causing deep financial problems for millions of people across the country. Ahmadinejad’s government also said it would direct 20 percent of the savings from the subsidy cuts to supporting manufacturing. The manufacturing sector has yet to receive the promised support. Return to Top Nuclear Program Ahmadinejad has always campaigned on Iran’s continuation of its uranium enrichment program, emphasizing Iran will not give up this “right.” At the end of his second term in the office, Ahmadinejad has made true to that campaign promise. In his 2009 re-election campaign, Ahmadinejad criticized the former reformist government for signing the additional IAEA’s Additional Protocol on Nuclear Safeguards, granting agency inspectors greater authority to investigate Iran’s nuclear program. Also in September 2009, while rejecting a warning from the United States regarding Iran’s nuclear program, Ahmadinejad reiterated, “Iran’s nuclear issue is over. We will never negotiate Iran’s undeniable rights.”   During Ahmadinejad’s second term, Iran continued enriching uranium and although a few rounds of nuclear talks have been held between Iran and the so-called 5+1 powers, the talks ended without tangible results. Despite Ahmadinejad’s insistence on Iran’s right to enrich uranium, he has not been able to fulfill his 2008 pledge to produce “nuclear energy in Iran by 2009.” Return to Top Shrinking Government “We will continue our structural reforms. God-willing, we are planning to send a bill to parliament regarding reducing the number of [government] ministries.” President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad – June 5, 2010 In December 2010, Iran’s Parliament passed a law, requiring the government to decrease the number of ministries from 21 to 17.   Afterwards, Ahmadinejad’s administration integrated several ministries to reach the number of 17. However, in January 2011, the parliament voted to create a sports ministry by merging two existing organizations. Now, Iran has 18 ministries. The goal behind reducing the number of government ministries was to save money. However, in late 2012, President Ahmadinejad approved tens of thousands of people to join the government as civil servants across the country. This move will increase the overall size of the bureaucracy even within fewer subdivisions. Return to Top Fighting Corruption Ahmadinejad vowed to “Fight corruption” when re-elected in 2009 as well as when first election in 2005. In the 2009 campaign, he spoke frequently of his anti-corruption plans; threatening to reveal the names of those he called “economic corruptors.” On June 3, 2009, during his live electoral debate on TV with candidate Mir Hossein Mousavi, Ahmadinejad named high-ranking figures such as former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, former reformist mayor Gholam Hossein Karbaschi and current member of Expediency Discernment Council Ali Akbar Nategh Nouri as “economic corruptors.” However, Ahmadinejad’s disclosure of names stopped with the end of the election campaign. Despite Ahmadinejad’s anti-corruption rhetoric, his second term saw the biggest embezzlement scandal in the Islamic Republic’s history. This bank fraud came to light in 2011. In the case, a group of “government officials” were among those accused. The 3,000 billion Toman ($2.6 billion) fraud actually dated back to 2007, during Ahmadinejad’s first term. Also in 2010, a high-profile insurance fraud case came to light. It later came out that Ahmadinejad’s First Vice President, Mohammad Reza Rahimi, was being investigated for his role. Ahmadinejad had vowed to expose “economic corruptors” to the public. However, during the insurance fraud trial, the Ahmadinejad administration insisted that the names of the accused not be made public. Return to Top Housing Construction Ahmadinejad’s Housing Construction Plan, known as the Mehr Housing Scheme, was introduced in 2007, during the President’s first term. It was designed to tackle the housing shortage. Based on the plan, applicants would pay for a small share of the construction costs and would receive assistance with home loans. In his 2009 re-election campaign, Ahmadinejad said the Mehr Housing Scheme would make strong progress that year helping control housing prices. In 2011 Ahmadinejad said, “Hopefully the housing problem will be eradicated by late March 2013.”    Although the Mehr Housing Scheme has started to be putting into effect across the country, the roll out has come with considerable delay. At the same time house prices have continued to soar in Iran. According to recent data provided by Iran’s Statistics Center, in the summer of 2012, residential land prices in Tehran increased more than 32 percent compared to the summer of 2011. Return to Top Inflation and Employment Inflation: Ahmadinejad has repeatedly said that his economic policies are aimed at lowering inflation. He claimed his subsidy reform would eliminate “one of the main causes of inflation” reducing inflation to “less than 10 percent.”   However, according to Iran’s Central Bank, the annual inflation rate hit 27.4 percent at the end of 2012. In 2009, the inflation rate was less than 11 percent, according to official figures. Employment: On May 27, 2009, Ahmadinejad said “We have several policy proposals [related to employment]… and in three to four years we will balance the situation.”   Accordingly in his New Year speech on March 2011, Ahmadinejad claimed his government had a plan to create “2.5 million jobs” in one year. In March 2012, Ahmadinejad also said if his opponents stopped “creating obstacles, he would be able to “eliminate [high] unemployment” by the end of his term.   Based on the latest data from the summer of 2012, Iran’s unemployment rate was 12.4 percent according to official statistics. This rate was 11.1 percent in the summer of 2011. Return to Top
####January 15, 2013####Timeline: A Half-Year to Election Day####On June 14, 2013, Iran will hold presidential election. Current president Mahmud Ahmadinejad is not able to run for re-election due to term limits. The wide open field is likely to pit partisans of an anti-Western policy against factions more conciliatory with the West. In the lead up to the election day, it is believed that, Iran will be immersed in an almost violent election campaign between partisans of a hard anti-US line and supporters of compromise-and-negotiations with the West. In this interactive timeline, you can review important events that have shaped Iran’s presidential election, beginning 180 days before the first ballots are cast.
####February 8, 2013####Conservative MP: Upcoming election sparks journalist arrests####Photo: Mehr News Agency Conservative Member of the Parliament, Ali Motahari slammed recent arrests of more than a dozen journalists, saying that this trend is due to the upcoming election. In an interview with Bahar Newspaper, published on February 7, the Tehran MP said: “Since the presidential election is approaching, I believe a part of the regime wants to control the election.” He added that Iran’s Intelligence Ministry has given no “good reason” for these arrests. Since January 26, Iran has arrested 17 journalists of whom 15 are still in custody. Iranian Intelligence Ministry accused the arrested journalists of being linked to the “foreign media” and has warned that such detentions will continue to take place. The arrests were met with international reactions; Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, Reporters Without Borders, Committee to Protect Journalists and European Union’s foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton respectively expressed concern about the recent trend. According to Reporters Without Borders, Iran has a poor record as far as freedom of the press issues are concerned. In its 2013 Press Freedom Index, Iran was ranked 174 among 179 countries. Election Timeline Updated
####March 21, 2013####Former reformists try to shift Iranian election toward Khatami####Visualization of word usage in the report prepared under the auspices of President Khatami. The document was composed by former Reformist officials. The most frequently used four words are “the State,” “Economic,” and “Social [problems],” as well as “Government” in Farsi. [Data Analysis] – Less than three months before Iran’s June presidential election, around 20 candidates have announced their intention to run for office. But, for the first time in the Islamic Republic of Iran, none of these potential candidates represent an obvious “game changer” as the next president. In such an environment, during the past month, several groups of former Reformists have tried to convince ex-President Mohammad Khatami to run in the upcoming election “to save” the country. “Fears and Hopes: Dos and Don’ts” is a long study, prepared and published this week under Khatami’s auspices, which aim to evaluate the status quo in Iran. This is the latest move in a repositioning exercise by the Reformists who are still hopeful to get the green light from the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to have a serious reformist contender such as Khatami stand for election. According to the study, signed by 46 former Reformist ministers, advisors and high-profile figures, all active during Khatami’s presidency (1997 – 2005), the presidential race “can be a fateful election” for Iran. An analysis of the wording of the proposed study shows that the main concerns of these Reformists are respectively the sustainability of “the State” as well as solving “economic” and “social” problems. The lengthy report reviews all Iran’s accomplished “growth” and “development” after the 1979 revolution, during the Iran-Iraq war, and from the late 80’s until 2005 when President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad took the office. In several long passages, with no mention of the “Ahmadinejad” administration by name, the report details the failures and difficulties faced by Iran after 2005. Lack of economic stability and banking turmoil; the rise of unemployment, corruption and inflation; Iran’s brain drain dilemma; increasing “widespread poverty among 10 to 15 million in the population”; and “at least two million drug addicts” are some of the points mentioned in the study. The study also briefly points to the necessity of respecting citizens’ rights and civil liberties, such as the freedom of expression, but only blames the current administration (of President Ahmadinejad) for failures. There is not even a single word, in the study, about the Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei who has full authority on Iran’s domestic and foreign affairs. Nor is there any mention of unelected institutions, such as Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps and police forces, and that the Supreme Leader controls the country through them. Moreover, the submitted report to former president Khatami says nothing about the 2009 disputed presidential election, nor about two of the serious contenders in that election, Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karoubi, who have been under house arrest since 2011. However, most of the people who prepared this evaluation report had already been working with Mousavi and Karoubi’s campaigns in 2009. Iran’s presidential election is scheduled to take place June 14.
####March 11, 2013####How popular are Iran’s potential presidential candidates on Facebook?####PausePlayPlayPrev|Next Snapshots of potential candidates’ fan page on Facebook Although Iran blocks access to Facebook, the social networking site has become a powerful force in the Iranian political life. Facebook first became popular in Iran’s political circles during the disputed 2009 presidential election. After the election, government censors blocked Facebook for a period. However, the social networking site is now accessible (through VPNs) again and enjoys considerable popularity among Iranians with Internet access. Now that Iran’s June 2013 presidential election is nearly here, Iran Election Watch has looked into just how Facebook friendly are the potential presidential candidates? The following piece examines the support on Facebook for each of the likely and announced presidential candidates. The data has been compiled through searching for “pages” either created since December 2012 or specifically dedicated to Iran’s June 2013 presidential election.   Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei: “Man of spring” So far there are more than 10 Facebook pages created to support Mashaei’s candidacy with more than 1,800 “likes” in total. The main page with most followers is called “Campaign to Invite Engineer Mashaei to [run in] the Presidential Election.” This page which has more than 700 likes, and it was created in August, 2012. The page mostly covers news about Rahim Mashaei and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. It criticizes their opponents such as the powerful Larijani brothers, one of whom is the head of parliament and the other who runs the judiciary. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has openly favored Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei. In a speech on March 10, 2013 Ahmadinejad once again praised Mashaei, saying, “If I want to describe Mashaei in one word, I have to say engineer Mashaei is the man of spring, spring, and spring.” It is widely believed by Ahmadinejad’s opponents that the word “spring” and the term “Viva Spring” is the slogan for government candidate’s campaign, especially Mashaei. Some political figures have warned Ahmadinejad not to use this term and avoid campaigning about his favored candidate before the legal campaign period. The government neither denied nor took ownership of this claim, although there are several pages on Facebook in favor of Mashaei that are called “Viva Spring”. In this regard, a post by the page administrator published on “Campaign to Invite Engineer Mashaei to [run in] the Presidential Election” notes the following: “Advertising the Spring is Forbidden!” “Tehran Municipality: Advertising the Spring is Forbidden! In a strange move, Tehran municipality had ordered the term “Welcoming the Spring” to be removed from all Nowrooz (Persian New Year held on March 20) advertisements around the city of Tehran and replaced by another term.” The administrator later commented on the post, “God knows what they are afraid of.” Another fan has written: “More political opponents bring more popularity [for Mashaei].” Although “Campaign to Invite Engineer Mashaei to [run in] the Presidential Election” is created for Mashaei’s supporters, some of his opponents are also present and active on the page. One person commented, “Mashaei even should not be approved [by Iran’s powerful Guardian Council, which vets candidates],” while another has written, “It is unfortunate if people once again are fooled by you. Your approach is more dangerous than damned Mousavi’s (reformist candidate during 2009 presidential election).” The page is widely followed by Mashaei’s and Ahmadinejad’s supporters. In one post, a follower has written: “Being faithful to supporters is something that I have rarely seen among Iranian politicians, but I strongly believe that Ahmadinejad and Mashaei, unlike others, are loyal and faithful. I am proud of their behavior.”   Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf: “A Doctor, Mayor and Pilot with Blue Eyes” Political supporters of Tehran Mayor Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf are among the most active in the world of social media. Besides dozens of pages and groups in favor of Ghalibaf dating back to 2008 with thousands of supporters (only one of his fan pages has nearly 18 thousand likes), there are more than 45 pages related to the presidential campaign. These campaign related pages altogether have at least 14,800 followers. Ghalibaf’s most popular campaign page, “Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf’s Supporters” was created in December 2012 and has more than 7,000 followers. Reviewing the different campaign pages, one can see that Ghalibaf’s supporters focus on three issues: His positive reputation as Tehran mayor Ghalibaf has a reputation as a good executive as Tehran’s mayor. He is widely known to be a competent manager. There are hundreds of pictures on Facebook pages showing his success with construction and taking care of the city. There is frequent mention of the fact that Ghalibaf was ranked as the eighth best mayor in the world in 2008 by the “World Mayor” website. His participation in the Iran-Iraq war There are dozens of pictures showing Ghalibaf as a young member of the Revolutionary Guards participating in the war. One photo shows him crying above a martyr’s body and some others show him among other soldiers. There are comments on these photos such as, “You have a place in people’s heart doctor,” “May he be the president since he not just talks but acts,” “You are Iran’s hope,“ and “You were handsome from an early age.” However, some criticized the publishing of these photos as an act of propaganda. One person said, “Mr. Ghalibaf has worked so hard during these eight years that there is no need for further proof. Please don’t publish these photos and talk about his good work instead.” His being a pilot Ghalibaf trained as a pilot during the 90’s which is a fact that has broad appeal to his supporters. His pictures wearing a pilot costume were even widely published during his candidacy in the 2005 presidential election. Right now also there is a lot of emphasis on Ghalibaf’s pilot degree with one page even being called “Dr. Pilot Ghalibaf’s Supporters”. Numbers of photos on Facebook shows him as a handsome pilot with blue eyes with some comments following such as, “I love you captain,” “You are so classy captain,” and “You are one of a kind.”   Mohammad Reza Aref: “A democratic Reformist” Mohammad Reza Aref’s supporters have created at least seven campaign pages since December 2012, which are being followed by at least 150 people in total. The most followed Facebook page with more than 55 fans is called “Supporting Dr. Mohammad Reza Aref.” The page was created on December 2012 and its administrator has reiterated that “If Mohammad Reza Khatami (former reformist president) joins the election race, this page will change its activity and will support Khatami.” On January 7 the page administrator welcomed the “reformists’ coalition” and emphasized that the goal of the page is to support the reformist candidates like Aref and added “May the democrat reformists win the upcoming election.” One of Aref’s supporters has written on the page, “Aref must join the race for three reasons: He believes in democracy, He will probably be approved [by the Guardian Council] and he has a chance to win votes.” Along with pages supporting Aref’s candidacy, there is a page on Facebook with more than 140 likes which asked Aref not to join the election campaign. The page, “A Campaign to Ask Dr. Aref and Reformists to Avoid Running for the Election,” has a slogan, as it is cover page saying, “No to Sham Election”.   Gholam Hossein Elham: “For the sake of spring, join the race” Gholam Hossein Elham has three fan pages on Facebook and more than 120 people have “liked” these pages. The most popular one with 56 followers was created in January 2013 and is called “Public Movement to Invite Dr. Gholam Hossein Elham – Spring Fellows”. It is widely believed by Ahmadinejad’s opponents that the word “spring” and the term “Viva Spring” is the slogan for government candidate’s campaign. The page administrator has written in one post: “For the sake of spring, join the race.”   Ali Fallahian: There is only one page dedicated to Fallahian under his name which was created on February 2013 and to-date it has only 5 followers.   Manouchehr Mottaki: Mottaki’s supporters have created five pages in favor of his candidacy with more than 30 fans. His most visible page has 15 likes and is called “Group of Youth and Students Supporting Manouchehr Mottaki”.   Mostafa Pourmohammadi: There is one page called “Mostafa Pourmoahammadi” so far which was created in February with more than 30 likes. In one post published by the page administrator, there is a reference to a statement made by Pourmohammadi saying, “In the 2009 election we had some violations but no fraud.”   Hassan Rowhani: Rowhani has one fan page so far with more than 15 likes. The page is called “Dr. Hassan Rowhani’s Fans” and was created in February 2013. This page mentions that Hassan Rowhani insists on the formation of a coalition government.
####March 3, 2013####Intelligence Minister: Opposition using foreign support to prepare for election####Heydar Moslehi – Photo: ISNA Iran’s Intelligence Minister Heydar Moslehi says his country’s opposition is receiving both foreign and domestic financial support as it prepares for this June’s presidential election. “With the financial support coming from within and abroad, the sedition current is preparing itself and has some plans for the elections,” Moslehi said on March 2. Iranian Authorities use the term “sedition” to refer to the 2009 post-election demonstrations, which were held by those supporting the two reformist presidential candidates, Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi. On February 27, Moslehi has said that his ministry “will closely monitor the atmosphere during the presidential election.” At the same time, Iran’s Chief of Police announced on February 3 that a special police force will be launched ahead of Iran’s upcoming presidential election in June. As the June 14 election date approaches, some hardliners have warned against what they call the possibility of a second “sedition” and authorities are preparing for potential protests.
####January 27, 2013####Investigating Presidential Prospect Rowhani’s Academic Past####Hassan Rowhani, Conservative Politician and Iran’s former chief nuclear negotiator- Photo: Fars News Agency Iran Election Watch published a profile last week about potential Iranian Presidential Candidate Hassan Rowhani. In the story, we reported Rowhani’s claim to have a Ph.D. in Law from the “University of Glasgow.” However, we found no record that Rowhani had actually received a Ph.D. from the University of Glasgow. Our interest in the candidate’s academic history came as we looked at the academic past of Iran’s presidential contenders. A number have graduate degrees from top Western universities including Ali Akbar Salehi (Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology) and Mohammad Reza Aref (Ph.D. from Stanford University). We published this information in our series of profiles of potential candidates. When writing about the potential contenders’ academic past, we did more than look to official biographies. After all, information about past graduate work is increasingly accessible these days with academia’s growing embrace of the Web, especially at Western universities. Rowhani heads Iran’s Center for Strategic Research and, according to his official biography, he received an M. Phil. and a Ph.D. in Law from the University of Glasgow. We wanted to follow up on this claim. We checked the University of Glasgow’s website and the Glasgow Theses Service. Nothing came up indicating Rowhani had received a degree from that university. We searched extensively for Hassan Rowhani or any combination of the various English versions of his name such as Hasan, Rouhani, and Rohani. We knew Rowhani had changed his family name from Fereydoun to Rowhani after the Iranian Revolution. Again, we searched for various versions of his prior family name. We also searched the British Library Public Catalogue for any reference to Rowhani’s Glasgow Ph.D. Again, we found nothing. It was at this point we actually contacted the University of Glasgow, as we reported in the final paragraph of our profile of Rowhani. In short, we have been unable to find any record that Rowhani completed his Ph.D. at the University of Glasgow, one of Britain’s leading higher education institutions.
####February 12, 2013####Iran committee to criminalize certain online election content####Photo: Mehr News Agency The head of Iran’s “Committee for Determining Examples of Criminal Web Content” announced on February 11 that his committee has assembled a list of “examples of cyber crimes regarding the presidential election”. Abdol Samad Khorramabadi said the list was prepared during the committee’s February 6 meeting. The list describes 16 types of criminal web content: Disturbing the public and creating conflict in society Promotion of boycotting the election Publishing insulting content about the election and candidates Publishing any content against candidates from three days prior to the election Misusing government websites and blogs to promote or demote candidates Online campaigning before or after the time allocated to campaigning activities Inciting and persuading people to commit an act of election fraud Threatening the voters and people at polling stations Misusing images of people for campaigning Publishing any content against the regime, government, judicial, legislature and governmental organizations Publishing any confidential content Publishing any confidential document related to the presidential election Publishing untrue information regarding the election results Publishing any content with a false identity in order to interfere in the election process Government personnel publishing any campaigning content against candidates, by using their real names Publishing any campaigning content pro or against candidates by authorities who administer and supervise the election The “Committee for Determining Examples of Criminal Web Content” was established in 2009 after Iran’s Computer Crimes Law took effect. The Computer Crimes Law was first approved by parliament on November 17, 2008. After approval by the Guardian Council on June 28, 2009, the law came into force at President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s order on July 1, 2009.
####May 16, 2013####Iran Election Watch investigation leads to correction of official bio for presidential candidate####Four months after an Iran Election Watch investigation, a think tank run by presidential candidate Hassan Rowhani has corrected his official biography, which had claimed Rowhani obtained a Ph.D. from the prestigious University of Glasgow. The think tank has now asked Iran Election Watch to “publish a correction.” Photo: Mehr News AgencyUntil recently, Rowhani’s bio on that website claimed he had graduated from the internationally acclaimed University of Glasgow. For years, journalists and scholars who profiled, researched or interviewed Rowhani had noted as a matter of fact that Rowhani held a Ph.D. from that university. After extensive reporting, Iran Election Watch ran two stories in January noting it found no evidence that Rowhani ever received a degree from the University of Glasgow. Rowhani is Iran’s former chief nuclear negotiator and currently heads the Tehran-based think tank, the Center for Strategic Research (CSR). He officially registered last week to run in Iran’s 2013 presidential election. CSR wrote Iran Election Watch on April 14 regarding our website’s January reporting on Rowhani’s academic past. The think tank clarified that the “correct university is GCU (Glasgow Caledonian University) [and] not University of Glasgow, according to Rouhani [Rowhani]’s biography on his personal website and his resume on [the] CSR website.” Screenshot of the email Iran Election Watch received from the Center for Strategic Research in Tehran. After receiving CSR’s request for a correction, Iran Election Watch looked into the matter further. We found that CSR had itself corrected Rowhani’s official biography following our January stories. Despite asking Iran Election Watch for a correction, the think tank had changed Rowhani’s graduate degree granting institution from the “University of Glasgow” to “Glasgow Caledonian University” in April 2013. Screenshots below from the same page, in Farsi, show the changes with dates: First screenshot from January 24, 2013. Second screenshot from May 15, 2013. The University of Glasgow and Glasgow Caledonian University are separate institutions with different levels of international stature. The University of Glasgow is one of oldest universities in the English-speaking world. Glasgow Caledonian University was established in 1993 and has considerably less global standing. The Guardian ranked 120 British universities earlier this year. The University of Glasgow placed 14th while Glasgow Caledonian University ranked 91st.
####February 3, 2013####Iran Police Chief: Special Police Force to be Launched Before Election####Photo: Mehr News Agency Esmail Ahmadi Moghaddam, Iran’s Chief of Police, said today (February 3) that the “enemy’s new plan for the [upcoming] presidential election is to create tension domestically through increasing economic pressure.” Referring to the crackdown on Iran’s 2009 post-election unrest, Ahmadi Moghaddam praised the police reaction to what he called “sedition.” Iranian Authorities have frequently used this term to refer to the 2009 post-election demonstrations. Chief Moghaddam added that a special police force will be launched ahead of Iran’s upcoming presidential election in June. As next presidential election approaches, authorities like Moghaddam are preparing for potential protests. Some hardliners have warned against what they call the possibility of a second “sedition.” Election Timeline Updated
####February 16, 2013####Iran to form committees to investigate election-related offences####Sadegh Larijani – Photo: ILNA News Agency The head of Iran’s judiciary has announced that with the presidential and city council elections approaching, special committees will be established in each province to prevent and investigate election-related offences. According to a circular published on the official judiciary website on February 15, central committees under the judiciary will operate from each provincial capital. These provincial capital committees will in turn supervise satellite committees established in the province’s other cities. Sadegh Larijani, head of Iran’s judiciary, has said that the committees will be charged with the strict enforcement of the election laws. Such committees were utilized for the first time during Iran’s last parliamentary election in early 2012. This time, special committees will observe the presidential and city council elections, both scheduled for June 14, 2013. The Judiciary’s announcement comes several days after Iran’s “Committee for Determining Examples of Criminal Web Content” announced on February 11 that it had assembled a list of “examples of cyber crimes relating to the presidential election”. The “Committee for Determining Examples of Criminal Web Content” was established in 2009 and is chaired by Iran’s Attorney General, Gholam Hossein Mohseni Ejei.
####February 14, 2013####Iran’s Economic Position During Presidential Elections####Photo: Mehr News Agency Campaign Promises are highly influenced by country’s current economic situation. Such economic conditions are likely to be decisive in determining the election’s outcome. Looking back to the winner of the last presidential election, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s promises were widely based on economic matters including economic reform, reducing inflation, decreasing unemployment, fighting corruption. We will review below Iran’s economic conditions during past presidential elections until today. We have focused on four main factors: Inflation, Economic Growth (GDP Growth), Dollar rate (Official Rate and Open Market Rate) and Oil (Production and Price). Inflation Photo: Mehr News Agency Inflation as measured by the consumer price index reflects the annual percentage change in the cost to the average consumer of acquiring a basket of goods and services. Presidential Elections Inflation Rate 1980 20.6% 1981 14.2% 1985 4.4% 1989 22.3% 1993 21.2% 1997 17.3% 2001 11.3% 2005 13.4% 2009 13.5% Source: International Monetary Fund, International Financial Statistics and data files Economic Growth Photo: Mehr News Agency Annual percentage growth rate of GDP at market prices. GDP is the sum of gross value added by all resident producers in the economy plus any product taxes and minus any subsidies not included in the value of the products. Presidential Elections GDP Growth Rate 1980 -13.2% 1981 -5.2% 1985 2.1% 1989 6.2% 1993 -1.6% 1997 3.4% 2001 3.7% 2005 4.6% 2009 1.8% Source: World Bank national accounts data, and OECD National Accounts data files US Dollar Rate Photo: Mehr News Agency The exchange rates listed below are in Iranian Tomans per US Dollar. Elections Official Rate Open Market Rate 1980 7 14 1981 8 27 1985 8 61 1989 7 120 1993 165 180 1997 175 478 2001 175 792 2005 902 904 2009 983 1,000 2013 1,226 Latest 4,000 Source: Mehr News Agency Oil Photo: Mehr News Agency Oil Price: Average 2012: 109.05$ per barrel (Iran Heavy Crude Oil) Average 2009: 60.62$ pb (Iran Heavy Crude Oil) Average 2005: 47.99$ pb (Iran Heavy Crude Oil) Average 2001: 23.12$ pb (OPEC Basket average price) Oil Production (based on secondary sources) – Jan 2013 2012: 2,970 tb/d- IEA: 3,000 tb/d (thousand barrels per day) 2009: 3,728 tb/d- IEA: 3,740 tb/d 2005: 3,924 tb/d- IEA: nearly 4,000 tb/d 2001: 3,460 tb/d – IEA: nearly 3,500 tb/d Source: Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)  
####June 5, 2013####Iran’s Marathon Presidential Debate Offers an Exchange of Policy Proposals####Photo: ISNA During Iran’s 2009 presidential election, the candidates’ live, one-on-one debates on Iranian state television provoked strong criticism from conservatives. The debates were followed by harsh charges leveled between candidates and even disclosure of unfavorable information on top officials. This election season, state television has changed procedures in an effort to avoid what unfolded four years ago. It announced that one-on-one debates would be replaced by a live group debate with all eight candidates present. On May 31, the first part of these debates was broadcasted live. Over four hours, candidates described their economic policies. Based on the structure of the program, each candidate was picked as the main responder to the question and had three minutes to answer with an explanation of his policy. Afterwards each candidate was given 90 seconds to criticise the responder’s answer and offer his own policy proposal. In the end the main responder had two minutes to respond to criticism. The following are the candidates’ economic policies as articulated in the debate: How are you going to deal with unemployment? Candidates backstage- Photo: Tasnim News Agency During recent years, unemployment has been one of Iran’s main economic challenges. As Iran’s Statistics Center recently announced, Iran’s unemployment rate has risen to 12.2 percent from 11.5 in 2005, the year President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad took the office. According to this data, 8.9 percent of those considered employed are “partially” employed. Mohammad Reza Aref: Creating economic stability through the re-establishment of a “Management and Planning Organization” (an organization dissolved by Ahmadinejad’s government in 2007). Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf: Directing liquidity towards production. Mohammad Gharazi: Dealing with inflation. Gholam Ali Haddad Adel: Re-opening of closed factories. Saeed Jalili: Focusing on production, agriculture and science. Mohsen Rezaei: Promoting entrepreneurship. Hassan Rowhani: Improving the business environment. Ali Akbar Velayati: Paying attention to the agriculture and industrial sectors.   What is your plan for decision-making and how are you going to build interaction between the government, judiciary, legislature and regulatory bodies? Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei has long sought to maintain harmony between different bodies within Iran’s government. During Ahmadinejad’s administration there were harsh clashes between these entities which was openly criticised by officials and regime figures. Mohammad Reza Aref Rule through collective wisdom and the presence of all political currents within the administration. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf Avoiding politicization and using capable people from both the reformist and conservative camps. Mohammad Gharazi Avoiding political division. Gholam Ali Haddad Adel Using technocrats so as to avoid leaders with overt political affiliations. Saeed Jalili Paying attention to opinions proposed bythe people, experts and politicians within the context of the Islamic regime. Mohsen Rezaei Presence of capable and efficient forces who are faithful to the state. Hassan Rowhani Establishing a nonpartisan government. Ali Akbar Velayati Using experts who are faithful to the regime, constitution and Supreme Leader.   What is your plan to provide housing and curb housing price inflation? Photo: Young Journalists Club The uncontrolled increase in Iran’s housing prices will be one of the major issues for Iran’s next presidential administration. Ahmadinejad’s Housing Construction Plan, known as the Mehr Housing Scheme, was designed to address the rise in housing prices. It was introduced in 2007. Based on that plan, applicants would pay for a small share of home construction costs and would receive assistance with loans. Although the Mehr Housing Scheme has gone into effect across the country, its rollout came with considerable delay. At the same time house prices have continued to soar in Iran. According to data published by Iran’s Statistics Center in June 2013, housing and rental prices have more than tripled since 2005, the year President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad assumed office. Mohammad Reza Aref Reforming Mehr Housing Scheme. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf Reforming Mehr Housing Scheme. Mohammad Gharazi Taking care of housing issue along with other principal issues. Gholam Ali Haddad Adel Following the Mehr Housing Scheme with emphasis on building homes in old and antiquated urban areas. Saeed Jalili Following Mehr Housing Scheme. Mohsen Rezaei Reforming Mehr Housing Scheme with emphasis on Islamic architecture. Hassan Rowhani Provide affordable housing. Ali Akbar Velayati Following Mehr Housing Scheme with the participation of both the government and private sector.   How are you going to create economic justice? Mohammad Reza Aref: Focusing on economic growth and wealth creation. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf: Insisting on economic growth and the fair spread of infrastructure. Mohammad Gharazi: Taking the government’s hand out of poor people’s pockets. Gholam Ali Haddad Adel: Following the Islamic definition of progress and justice. Saeed Jalili: Pursuing the just allocation of resources. Mohsen Rezaei: Fighting discrimination, favoritism and bribery. Hassan Rowhani: Increasing domestic production instead of focusing on imports. Ali Akbar Velayati: Allocating facilities such as education, employment and housing in a fair way.   What is your plan for dealing with oil revenue reduction? Photo: Tasnim News Agency Iran’s oil sector faces crushing sanctions due to the Islamic Republic’s continued pursuit of its nuclear program. This has caused a considerable decrease in Iran’s oil exports. According the US Energy Information Administration (IEA), oil exports comprise 80% of Iran’s total export earnings and 50% to 60% of its government revenue.In April 2013 the IEA reported that Iran’s exports for the previous year of crude oil and lease condensate dropped to their lowest level since 1986 as the United States and European Union tightened sanctions targeting Iran’s oil sector. Iran’s 2012 net estimated oil export revenue, at $69 billion, was significantly lower than the $95 billion generated in 2011. Mohammad Reza Aref Reducing the country’s dependence on oil revenue and focusing on trade, the development of information and communication technologies and gaining revenue through flights going through Iran. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf Decreasing government costs, improving the private sector and directing liquidity towards production. Mohammad Gharazi Pursuing non-oil exports and improving the manufacturing sector. Gholam Ali Haddad Adel Focusing on non-oil exports. Saeed Jalili Minimizing country’s dependence on oil revenues and focusing on other sources of income such as transit revenues. Mohsen Rezaei Focusing on non-oil exports and boosting tourism. Hassan Rowhani Preventing crude sales. Ali Akbar Velayati Preventing crude sales and creating revenue through other channels such as transit.   How are you going to increase domestic manufacturing? When Mahmoud Ahmadinejad enforced his subsidy reform in 2010, one of his goals was to inject 30 percent (which later was reduced to 20) of the money saved from subsidy cuts to the manufacturing sector. However, he was not able to keep this promise. Mohammad Reza Aref Giving the manufacturing sector its share of the subsidy funds. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf Giving the manufacturing sector its share of the subsidy funds, directing additional capital towards manufacturing and taxing non-manufacturing related income. Mohammad Gharazi Reducing inflation so that domestic manufacturing would be profitable. Gholam Ali Haddad Adel Enforcing structural and policy reform. Saeed Jalili Backing domestic manufacturing even if it is not beneficial. Mohsen Rezaei Supporting domestic manufacturing using economic experts’ advice. Hassan Rowhani Shifting from consumption centered emphasis to a manufacturing emphasis. Ali Akbar Velayati Making the people and not the government responsible for industrial production and supporting domestic agriculture.   How are you going to pursue the implementation of economic reforms? Candidates backstage- Photo: Tasnim News Agency The first phase of the subsidy cut plan was enacted on December 18, 2010, in an attempt to wean the country from generous food and fuel subsidies, which guaranteed basic staples at low prices. The plan was supposed to eliminate the subsidies for various commodities such as fuel, food, water, and electricity and inject back part of the subsidy savings to citizens as cash handouts. This amounted to 50 percent of budget savings in the beginning, which later increased to 80 percent. However in the end, as soaring inflation rocked the Rial, the move squeezed the national economy. The government faced a budget shortage and had to borrow deeply from Iran’s Central Bank to cover cash handouts. Since the reforms were implemented, fuel and food prices have soared causing deep financial problems for millions of people across the country. Ahmadinejad’s government also said it would direct 20 percent of the savings from the subsidy cuts to supporting manufacturing, a commitment it did not keep. Mohammad Reza Aref Reviewing the subsidy reform in order to support the more vulnerable parts society. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf Supporting domestic production and increasing the purchasing power of the people. Mohammad Gharazi Using expert advice on how to pursue economic reforms and avoiding the politicization of this plan. Gholam Ali Haddad Adel Amending the economic reform plan, giving manufacturing its share of the subsidy. Saeed Jalili Giving manufacturing its share of the subsidy. Mohsen Rezaei Supporting the manufacturing sector. Hassan Rowhani Providing people with goods instead of cash handouts. Ali Akbar Velayati Adjusting economic reform in line with the country’s inflation rate.   How are you going to curb inflation? For most of the past decade Iran has suffered double-digit inflation. After the implementation of economic reforms in 2010 the pace of the rise of inflation increased. Besides domestic reasons, sanctions have also caused soaring inflation rate in Iran, pushing down its currency. In March 2013 the inflation rate rose to 31.5 percent according to Iran’s Statistics Center. Inflation was 27.4 percent at the end of last December and 26.4 percent in March 2012. Mahmoud Bahmani, governor of the Central Bank of Iran, has recently said that despite all efforts, the central bank has been unsuccessful in dealing with inflation. Mohammad Reza Aref Enforcing structural reform and fiscal discipline, avoiding rise in liquidity, increasing the investment and giving independence to Iran’s central bank. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf Stabilizing the currency, reviewing the distribution of goods, and fixing the prices of basic goods. Mohammad Gharazi Creating a balance between government’s spending and its revenue. Gholam Ali Haddad Adel Reforming related policies and controlling government spending. Saeed Jalili Pursuing structural and not partial solutions. Mohsen Rezaei First of all control the liquidity and dealing with the factors that cause inflation; government deficits, the size of government, economic sanctions, cash handouts and the Mehr Housing Scheme. Hassan Rowhani Controlling the liquidity, supporting the production sector, stabilizing the gold and foreign exchange market. Ali Akbar Velayati Controlling liquidity and avoiding the import of unnecessary goods.
####February 6, 2013####Major Supporter of Supreme Leader says reformists are lining up behind Rafsanjani####Photo: Mehr News Agency A hardline Member of the powerful Expediency Discernment Council said that reformists aim to return to the political scene of the country. Mohammad Hossein Saffar Harandi, one of major supporters of Iran’s Supreme Leader, said (on Feb. 6) that the reformists, knowing that their candidates do not have a chance to run the 2013 race, intend to support Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. Harandi is an advisor to Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC)’s chief and Ex-Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance in Ahmadinejad’s first administration. He says he sees the support for Rafsanjani as a signal showing a coalition beginning to form among all reformist groups. Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the former president and current chairman of Iran’s Expediency Discernment Council, initially talked about “free” and “transparent” elections as a solution to the “country’s problems”. Later on, some reformist figures also started to use the term “free elections”. Rafsanjani’s statement provoked a reaction from the Supreme Leader, Ali Khamanei, who on January 8 said “We’ve held more than 30 elections since the [1979] Islamic revolution, which one was not free? In which country can you see elections freer than those held in Iran?” After Khamenei’s criticism, other Iranian high profile hardliners also denounced the use of the term “free elections.” Election Timeline Updated
####June 12, 2013####Nuclear Issue Provokes Strong Reactions in Presidential Debate####June 7, 2013 The foreign policy decisions facing Iran’s next president will have global repercussions, especially on the nuclear issue. A recent presidential debate in Iran offered fresh perspective from the candidates, several of whom have been intimately involved in formulating Iran’s nuclear policy. Speculation about Iran’s nuclear intentions has been a dominant issue since at least 2002. During this time, the US has accused Iran of working on a nuclear weapon, an accusation which later was repeated by other West powers and Israel. Iran fiercely denies this accusation. There have been multiple rounds of nuclear talks with Iran since the issue came to the fore. The first nuclear talks concluded with modest agreements. However, after Mahmoud Ahmadinejad won Iran’s presidency in 2005, the talks broke down. This was followed by the adoption by the punitive UN Security Council of resolution 1929 and severe western sanctions against Iran. Since 2002 three Iranian figures have served as the country’s chief nuclear negotiator, Hassan Rowhani (2003-2005), Ali Larijani (2005-2007) and Saeed Jalili (2007- Present). Rowhani and Jalili are both presidential candidates standing in this year’s election. They joined the other candidates in debating the issue on a recent Iranian television debate. Here are the perspectives of the candidates from the debate: Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf We need to have domestic consistency. A government which is not approved and acclaimed by its own people, will not succeed in any sort of talks with foreigners. The fact that six world powers (5+1 countries) are talking to us and we have stood up to the United States is important. Saeed Jalili In Almaty nuclear talks in April, 5+1 told us if we halt 20 percent uranium enrichment, they will not be implementing two sets of new sanctions. This means trading a pearl with a lollipop… we told them we are ready to take mutual steps, as much as you step forward, we will step forward… We were ready but they said they need to consult on this among themselves for a few days. Their consultations have lasted for 40 days. We had achievements in our nuclear talks… Since 2008, they were able to enforce only one resolution… The fact that the United States is taking unilateral actions [against Iran] shows that they are disappointed by the multilateral actions and are not able to reach a consensus. Our foreign policy is based on pure Islam and defending human rights, but the other side is using force and domination… Our foreign policy paradigm is in contrast with the one of the United States. Mohsen Rezaei The nuclear issue must come to an end… My strategy is to lift the sanctions through a good leadership within the country and through a strong diplomatic corps who are going to handle the foreign policy. The truth is that during both Jalili and Rowhani’s tenure [as nuclear negotiators], the nuclear talks went to the extremes. During Jalili [in 2008] we were coming to some agreements with Javier Solana (former EU foreign policy chief) which was not followed up strongly from our side. The nuclear talks must come out of its current broken-down mode… The talks must have a result… Just talks are not enough. The way to escape from the nuclear deadlock is to solve [Iran’s] economic problems… At the moment the Americans are not engaging in serious talks, They are buying time so that the sanctions affect us. When they see that the sanctions are not affecting us economically, they will engage in [serious nuclear] talks. Hassan Rowhani [When I was the nuclear negotiator] we had to do all we could to keep the nuclear issue in hands of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Board of Governors and prevent it from being referred to the United Nations Security Council… This case was unjustly referred to the Security Council and today we should try our best to return it to IAEA. It is very good to keep the centrifuges operating, only if at the same time people also can have a living and factories can operate. This is doable. Those who were saying that the Security Council cannot do anything and there will not be any sanctions, those who were celebrating everyday while saying that the nuclear issue has been solved and finalized, they should know that they were not able to anticipate international issues correctly. I believe we are in a very sensitive situation at the moment and those who have experience can solve the nuclear issue through negotiation and logic… The [Nuclear] opportunity comes out of real talks. Ali Akbar Velayati In 2007 [during the time that Ali Larijani was top nuclear negotiator], talks between Larijani and Javier Solana [former EU foreign policy chief] were reaching a good point. There were some agreements over [the installation of] 2,700 centrifuges [in Natanz nuclear plant]. But while Larijani was negotiating with Solana, a high-ranking executive official within Iran said “we are not going to discuss our nuclear issues” and therefore the agreement came to an end…. Larijani could solve the issue but a person who was not involved in the talks changed the situation with his comment. [Velayati is referring to Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad who in October 2007, while Larijani was negotiating with Solana, said in Tehran: “In our opinion Iran's controversial nuclear incident has ended... We no longer are going to negotiate about our rights with some powers.”] Before the Security Council’s Resolution 1929 came into force, back then French President Nicolas Sarkozy invited me to France for nuclear talks… Mr. President gave me permission and I met Sarkozy… We came to agree on not halting our enrichment completely and to keep some centrifuges active… Sarkozy was planning to travel to Iran… I brought back the result of our discussions and everything was stopped [from within]… The government did not respond to France’s request… We could proceed on our enrichment while avoiding Security Council’s resolution and sanctions. With Russia it was also the same… Putin traveled to Iran [regarding the nuclear issues] but again everything was hampered. In the last round of nuclear talks in Almaty in April, the 5+1 [powers] said that if Iran stops its 20 percent enrichment and slow down its activities in the Fordo [plant], several sanctions will be lifted in return, but we said all the sanctions must be lifted… When the opposite party is ready to take few steps, we should also be flexible. We need to insist on our right to enrich uranium and at the same time act cleverly and avoid being perceived as whimpering by other countries. Diplomats must solve problems, not [just] issue a statement… [referring to Saeed Jalili, current nuclear negotiator and presidential candidate] Giving a lecture to other countries and having press conference is not diplomacy… Mr. Jalili, diplomacy is not a philosophy class… What people can see is that for several years you have been in charge of the nuclear issue and could not do anything. Everyday the sanctions got worse and people are under pressure… The art of diplomacy is to defend the nuclear right and at the same time reduce the sanctions.  
####February 22, 2013####Potential candidate accuses Ahmadinejad of using cash handouts to sway voters####Photo: ISNA Iran’s former Intelligence Minister has accused President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of attempting to manipulate the outcome of Iran’s upcoming presidential election by offering cash handouts prior to the Norouz, the Persian new year. In an interview with Fars News Agency published on February 22, Ali Fallahian said by offering cash to the people prior to Norouz, Ahmadinejad is trying to “engineer the vote” and buy support for his favored candidate. Fallahian, who is considered a potential candidate himself to run in Iran’s presidential election, said that if Ahmadinejad says he and his favorite candidate will offer cash to the people, “the situation will change and all calculations [regarding the election]  will fail.” The chief of the economic commission of Iran’s parliament said last week that 73 million Iranians will get special handouts before Norouz, which starts on March 20. According to the decision made by parliament and the government, one-time cash handouts of 70,000 Tomans (about 50 U.S. dollars) may be combined with the monthly cash handout of 45,000 Tomans before the New Year starts. The monthly handouts are paid to Iranian citizens as part of Ahmadinejad’s effort to help the citizenry deal with inflation. Western countries have imposed heavy sanctions on Iran’s oil exports and banking system to force it stop enriching uranium and cooperate with the international community. Due to the sanctions and domestic mismanagement, Iran is experiencing the lowest level of oil exports in the last three decades. Iran lost over $40 billion in export revenues in 2012 or about $3.4 billion per month, the International Energy Agency said in its recent report. Fallahian accused Ahmadinejad of following inappropriate economic and strategic policies, which have lead to rampant inflation and high unemployment. He insisted on his own “excellent management and executive skills,” but hesitated to give details about any presidential campaign plans and postponed discussing his economic plans to “when the election officially starts”. Registration of presidential candidates begins on May 7 and the election will be held on June 14, 2013.
####January 26, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Ali Akbar Salehi####Photo: Mehr News Agency Ali Akbar Salehi is Iran’s Minister of Foreign Affairs and former representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency. In 1997, then President Mohammad Khatami appointed Ali Akbar Salehi as Iran’s permanent representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), a post he held until 2005. Salehi signed the IAEA’s Additional Protocol on Nuclear Safeguards in 2003, granting agency inspectors greater authority to verify the country’s nuclear program. In 2009 and during Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s second term, Salehi became the head of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI). Soon after, he was designated for a travel ban by the European Union. In 2010 Salehi was appointed Iran’s Foreign Minister, which was followed by the lifting of the EU travel restrictions against him. Born in 1949 in Iraq, Ali Akbar Salehi studied at the American University of Beirut and earned his Ph.D from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Nuclear Engineering in 1977. He has a background in academia and along with teaching at Iranian universities, Salehi was the president of Iran’s prestigious Sharif University of Technology. In October 2012, in an interview with World Policy Institute, Salehi said at the moment his decision was “not to run for presidency”, but also reiterated that “nobody can tell about the future.”
####January 27, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Ali Akbar Velayati####Photo: Fars News Agency Ali Akbar Velayati is Iran’s former Foreign Minister and the current senior advisor on international affairs to Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei. Velayati served as Iran’s Foreign Minister for 16 years during Khamenei’s presidency (1981-1989) and that of Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani (1989-1997). His tenure had been influential in shaping Iran’s hard-line stance toward the West. Velayati is one of the members of the powerful Expediency Discernment Council since its foundation in 1988. The council, whose members are directly appointed by the Supreme Leader, is an advisory body to Khamenei. It has an important role in resolving disputes between Iran’s legislature and its conservative Guardian Council. During Iran’s 2005 presidential election, Ali Akbar Velayati initially entered the race but withdrew in support of Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the former president and current chairman of the Expediency Discernment Council. He is conservative and known to be close to both Khamenei and Rafsanjani. Velayati is accused by German prosecutors of being the mastermind of the “Mykonos Assassination,” an attack in 1992 in the “Mykonos Restaurant” in Berlin in which four Iranian Kurdish leaders were assassinated. Born in Tehran in 1945, Velayati studied medicine at Tehran University and briefly at Johns Hopkins University in the United States.
####February 24, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Ali Fallahian####Photo: Fars News Agency Ali Fallahian is a member of Iran’s influential Assembly of Experts. He served as Minister of Intelligence from 1989-1997 under former president Hashemi Rafsanjani. This is the second time he enters the contest for the presidency of Iran. The first time was in 2001, in which he received less than one percent of the vote in an election won by reformist candidate Mohammad Khatami. In an interview with Tejarat-e-Farda magazine published on November 17, 2012, Fallahian said he wants to be president. In the interview, he also supported halting Iran’s uranium enrichment program, saying “enough with the nuclear [program]. We don’t want enrichment. We have the [enrichment] knowledge now.” Fallahian’s name has been linked to what is known as “Iran’s chain murder of intellectuals”, the murders and disappearances of dozens of Iranian dissidents. These events happened while he  served as intelligence minister and it has been alleged he was behind the 1995 bombing of a Jewish center in Buenos Aires, Argentina, that killed 85 people. He is also believed to have played a role in the killing of other Iranian dissidents outside the country, including the 1992 assassination of three Iranian Kurdish opposition leaders. This event has been called the Mykonos Assassination, as Mykonos was the name of the Berlin restaurant where the killing took place. Ali Fallahian is among the several Iranian officials on Interpol’s Wanted List. He and Mohsen Rezaei – another potential candidate- are suspected of involvement in the Argentina Jewish Center bombing. Fallahian was born in 1949 in Najafabad in central Iran and went to religious school.
####January 22, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Ali Larijani####Photo: Mehr News Agency Ali Larijani is the speaker of Iran’s parliament, who from 2005 to 2007 was the country’s nuclear negotiator as Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council. Larijani has been the head of parliament since 2008, while one of his brothers, Sadegh, is head of the Judiciary and another brother, Mohammad-Javad, is head of the Iranian judiciary’s Human Rights Council. Larijani joined Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) during the Iran-Iraq War (1980-1988) and later served in high-ranking IRGC positions until the early 1990s. During his political career, Ali Larijani served as head of Iran’s State Television and Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance. In the 2005 presidential election, Larijani ran as a conservative. He earned less than 4 percent of the vote and failed to reach the runoff. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad eventually won that year’s controversial election. Larijani, who is believed to be close to Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, is one of President Ahmadinejad’s strongest critics. During recent years, he has harshly criticized Ahmadinejad over his government’s economic policies. Larijani was born in Iraq in 1958. He holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from Tehran University. He is the son-in-law of Morteza Motahari, an influential cleric and an ideologist of the Islamic Republic.
####January 15, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei####Photo: Mehr News Agency Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei is known to be among the closest figures to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. He holds several positions such as Presidential Advisor and Special Representative of the President in Middle Eastern Affairs. Mashaei served as Ahmadinejad’s Chief of Staff from 2009 until recently. On December 2012, Ahmadinejad transferred him to the role of “Advisor to the President and the Presidential Secretariat of the Non-Aligned Movement.” Although Mashaei is loudly praised by Ahmadinejad, he is disliked by hardliners. They accuse him of leading a “deviant current,” a term they use to refer to Ahmadinejad’s inner circle. Hardliners and strong supporters of Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, allege the “deviant current” aims to weaken the Islamic establishment. On July 2009, Mashaei was appointed to vice president, a move strongly criticized by hardliners. Khamenei personally called for his removal and a week later, Mashaei resigned. Shortly thereafter, Ahmadinejad appointed Mashaei as his chief of staff. During recent years Mashaei, has stirred up controversy for his comments. His emphasis on Iran’s ancient culture rather than its Islamic past and his expressed desire for “Friendship with the Israeli people” are some positions which have made him a target of harsh criticism. Born in 1960 in northern Iran, Mashaei the is father-in-law of Ahmadinejad’s son.
####January 18, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Gholam Ali Haddad Adel####Gholam Ali Haddad Adel – Photo: Mehr News Agency Gholam Ali Haddad Adel is the top advisor to Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei. His daughter is married to Mojataba Khamenei, one of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei’s sons. Haddad Adel is a member of the Expediency Discernment Council, whose members are directly appointed by the Supreme Leader and is an advisory body to Khamenei. As a current member of Iran’s ninth parliament and the head of the parliament’s conservative faction, Haddad Adel was the parliament speaker from 2005 until 2008. In 2012, Haddad Adel once again put himself forward for speaker of the ninth parliament, but he lost the race to Ali Larijani. Ali Motahari, a conservative member of parliament, spoke out strongly against the former speaker during the race for speaker. “People like Haddad think standing up for people’s rights means going against the regime,” Motahhari said. “These people will resort to any cruelty with the excuse of trying preserving the regime.” Haddad Adel is known to be among Supreme Leader Khamenei’s circle of confidants. During the past three decades, he has served in many governmental positions including Vice Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance, Vice Minister of Higher Education, and the Head of Iran’s Academy of Persian Language and Literature. Haddad Adel was born in 1945 in Tehran. He obtained his Ph.D. in Philosophy from Tehran University, where he is still in the faculty of the philosophy department. Beside his education in the social sciences, Hadad Adel also holds a Master’s in Physics.
####January 15, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Gholam Hossein Elham####Photo: Mehr News Agency Gholam Hossein Elham, the current spokesman for Iran’s Government has held a variety of posts over President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s two terms. Elham is a former member of Iran’s influential Guardian Council. In addition to his role as spokesman, on January 2013 Ahmadinejad appointed Elham as his representative to the IRIB (Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting) supervisory council. Over the past 8 years, Elham, who is one of Ahmadinejad’s close poltical allies, has served as the president’s legal advisor and chief of staff. He was also the Minister of Justice, spokesman for the Judiciary and chief of Iran’s Drug Enforcement Office. As a figure deeply immersed in Ahmadinejad’s administration, Elham has attracted strong criticism from Ahmadinejad’s conservative opponents. From 2003 to 2008, Elham was a member of Iran’s Guardian Council. The most influential body in Iran, the Guardian Council must approve all bills passed by parliament and wields veto power. It also reviews the eligibility of candidates for different elections, including the presidential election. Born in 1959 in western Iran, Elham has a Ph.D. in Criminology from an Iranian graduate university, Tarbiat Moddares. His wife, Fatemeh Rajabi, is an ardent opponent of the reformist movement in Iran. After Ahmadinejad took the office in 2005, she praised him glowingly in her book, Ahmadinejad: Miracle of the Third Millenium, although her adulation for Ahmadinejad has diminished in recent years.
####January 24, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Hassan Rowhani####Photo: Mehr News Agency Hassan Rowhani, the former Secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council for more than 16 years, has hinted he might enter the country’s presidential race. Rowhani currently heads the Center for Strategic Research and he is a member of the Expediency Discernment Council, an advisory body to Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei. He is also a member of the Assembly of Experts, a body vested with authority to elect and remove the Supreme Leader. Rowhani is known to be close to both the Supreme Leader and Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the Chairman of Expediency Discernment Council. He has a long history in Iranian politics and is a former deputy speaker of the parliament. In 2003, during the Presidency of Mohammad Khatami, Rowhani became Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator. Khamenei had requested his appointment, and Rowhani held the post for two years until he was replaced by Ali Larijani when Mahmoud Ahmadinejad came to office in 2005. However, he remains a member of the Supreme National Security Council. Since then, he has sharply criticized Ahmadinejad policies, saying they are turning more nations against Iran and failing to fix the economy. Rowhani helped seal a deal with the European Union under which Iran suspended uranium enrichment, in October 2003, as a gesture to the West. After he was replaced, Iran resumed those activities and has pushed ahead with them despite U.N. sanctions and resolutions demanding a halt. In October 2012, Rowhani insisted on the participation of all groups and parties in the 2013 presidential election, and he voiced support for the formation of a nonpartisan government. Rowhani is a Shiite cleric, born in 1948. He claims he has a Ph.D. in Law from the “University of Glasgow.” However, a university spokesperson has told Iran Election Watch that they have “no record of anyone of that name” ever having attended the University of Glasgow.
####February 28, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Manouchehr Mottaki####Photo: ISNA The former Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki was an MP in the Islamic Republic of Iran’s first parliament. He later served in high-ranking positions in the Foreign Ministry, including heading the Iran’s embassies in Turkey and Japan. Mottaki was Iran’s Foreign Minister for five years under president Ahmadinejad. The president dismissed Mottaki in December 2010, while the minister was on an official visit to Senegal. “I will propose a plan in line with Supreme Leader’s beliefs and the people’s demands so that in a government with the name of the Islamic Republic, the president would be more than a sympathizer for the people and give something more than a future promise,” Mottaki said on his website in a message to Iranians announcing his candidacy. Mottaki is viewed as an ally of parliament speaker Ali Larijani, a conservative who lost to Ahmadinejad in the 2005 election and has since kept up an intense rivalry with him. In a sign that Mottaki may not agree with the Supreme Leader on everything, a note on his website last month criticized “crude” suggestions set out by Iran’s nuclear negotiators. Mottaki was born in 1953 in Bander-e-Gaz in Iran’s northern province of Golestan. He studied Social Science in India and returned to Iran after 1978 revolution, when he joined a revolutionary students’ committee in Tehran. He holds a MA degree from University of Tehran in International affairs.
####January 20, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf####Photo: Mehr News Agency The conservative Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf is Tehran’s current mayor. Ghalibaf participated in the Iran-Iraq War (1980-1988) as a young member of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard. During the mid-90s, Ghalibaf ran the influential “Khatam al-Anbia” firm. The company, belonging to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), is reputedly the biggest government contractor in the country. In 1996, the Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei, appointed Ghalibaf as IRGC Air Force commander, after which he trained as a pilot. He held the post for 3 years. In July 1999, Ghalibaf pressured reformist Iranian President Mohammad Khatami to suppress a wave of student protests. Ghalibaf, joined by 23 IRGC commander, sent a threatening letter to Khatami vowing strong action if the protests were allowed to continue. A few months later, Ayatollah Khamenei appointed Ghalibaf as chief of national police, where he served until 2005 when he resigned to compete in that year’s presidential election. Along with other reforms in national police, Ghalibaf kick-started the “Police 110” project, Iran’s equivalent of the 911 emergency hotline. In the election, Ghalibaf took nearly 14 percent of the vote, but failed to reach the run off. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, himself the former mayor of Tehran, took office that year. Ghalibaf has been mayor of Tehran since 2005. He appointed his wife, Zahra-Sadat Moshir, as his adviser on women’s affairs. In 2008, The “World Mayor” website ranked Ghalibaf as the eighth best mayor in the world among more than 800 mayors. Ghalibaf was born in 1961 in northeast Iran. He holds a Ph.D. in political geography from Tehran University.
####January 14, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Mohammad Reza Aref####Photo: Mehr News Agency Mohammad Reza Aref, a reformist politician, was the First Vice President for former Iranian President Mohammad Khatami. Aref is currently a member of the Expediency Discernment Council, an advisory body for Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei. Aref held different posts during Khatami’s presidency from 1997-2005. He was Minister of Information and Communications Technology from 1997 to 2000 and Vice President from 2001 to 2005. Aref registered as a parliamentary candidate for the 2008 election, but later withdrew in protest against the disqualification of reformist candidates by executive and supervisory boards. He is a supporter of not only Mohammad Khatami but also of Akbar Hashemi-Rafsanjani, Iran’s president from 1989 to 1997 and the current chairman of the Expediency Discernment council.The reformist politician has said several times that if Khatami joins the 2013 election as a candidate, he will step aside. Born in 1951 in Iran’s central city of Yazd, Aref has been active in Iranian politics since the Islamic Republic’s early years. He holds a B.Sc. from Tehran University and a M.Sc. and Ph.D. from Stanford Univesity in California in Electrical Engineering. He is active in academia, having taught at various Iranian universities since 1982.
####January 25, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Mohammad Saeedikia####Photo: Mehr News Agency Mohammad Saeedikia, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s former Minister of Housing and Urban Development, is the first officially announced candidate for Iran’s 2013 presidential election. Saeedikia says that although his career has led him to be considered a principlist, he does not belong to any party and is an “independent” candidate. Over more than two decades, the 66 years old politician has worked under four governments. From 1985 to 1993 Saeedikia served as Minister of Transportation under both Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi and President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. After Mohammad Khatami, Iran’s reformist president, took office in 1997, Saeedikia became Minister of Construction. He held the post for three years. From 2000 until the end of Khatami’s second term in 2005, Saeedikia served as a presidential advisor. When in 2005 President Ahmadinejad took office, Saeedikia was appointed Minister of Housing and Urban Development. In 2009 Ahmadinejad removed him citing his “heart disease.” Saeedikia nonetheless told others at that time he was physically in good shape. Saeedikia was born in Isfahan in 1946. He holds a Master of Science in Civil Engineering from Amirkabir University of Technology in Tehran.
####February 5, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Mohammad Shariatmadari####Photo: Tasnim News Agency Mohammad Shariatmadari is a member of Iran’s Strategic Council on Foreign Relations, a senior advisor to Iran’s Supreme Leader. He served as Commerce Minister for eight years during President Mohammad Khatami’s two terms (1997-2005). Shariatmadari has said that he is going to run for the presidency in 2013 as an independent candidate. After Iran’s 1979 Revolution, Shariatmadari was a member of Central Revolutionary Committee. He is one of the founders of Iran’s Intelligence Ministry. Under former president Hashemi Rafsanjani, Shariatmadari was deputy of Ministry of Commerce. Shariatmadari has also played an influential role in Ayatollah Khamenei’s office since he became the supreme leader of the country. In the 1997 presidential race, Shariatmadari was a strong supporter of Ayatollah Mohammad Reyshahri, who lost to Khatami. Although he was Khatami’s minister and a Board Member with the Chamber of Commerce, Shariatmadari is more known as an intelligence figure rather than an economic one. Born in Tehran in 1960, Shariatmadari studied Electrical Engineering at the University of Kerman. On his official website, he says that he has an MBA and since 2003 has been studying “abroad” for his Ph.D, although there is no mention of the name of the university. Shariatmadari recently said in an interview that as a teenager he participated in the anti-Baha’i  Hojjatieh Society and that he has family ties with the influential Imam Sadeq University.
####January 23, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Mohsen Rezaei####Photo: Mehr News Agency The former head of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard, Mohsen Rezaei is a conservative figure who ran for president on two earlier occasions. Rezaei has been the secretary of Iran’s influential Expediency Discernment Council since 1997. The council is an advisory body to Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei, who appoints its members. In 1981, Rezaei was appointed to lead Iran’s Revolutionary Guard, a post he held until 1997. He ran in Iran’s 2005 presidential race but withdrew ahead of the election. In 2009, Rezaei who holds a Ph.D. in economics from Tehran University, ran for the presidency again and after Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was declared winner, Rezaei initially questioned the election results but soon withdrew his complaint. The 2009 election was followed by widespread protests in Iran by those who believed the election was rigged. The protests were fiercely suppressed by regime forces and the son of Rezaei’s electoral advisor was among those who died while detained in Iran’s notorious Kahrizak detention center. Mohsen Rezaei is among the Iranian officials accused by Argentina of involvement in the 1994 attack on a Jewish center in Buenos Aires. 85 people died in the attack. Rezaei is on Interpol’s Wanted List. In 2011, Rezaei’s oldest son, Ahmad, was found dead in his hotel room in Dubai. Iran believes he was murdered.
####February 2, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Mostafa Kavakebian####Photo: Mehr News Agency A former member of parliament, Mostafa Kavakebian leads Iran’s Mardomsalari (Democracy) Party. In the 2009 presidential election, Kavakebian supported Mir Hossein Mousavi, the reformist candidate and challenger to current President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Kavakebian is also editor-in-chief of the Mardomsalari Party’s newspaper. That publication, known as “Mardomsalari,” is known for not crossing any red-line set by the government and thus being published without interruption since 2002. In 2005, Kavakebian intended to run for the presidency but later, as the early polls showed his limited popularity, he decided to withdraw. Later, in 2008, Kavakebian was elected to parliament. Although Kavakebian calls himself a reformist, some key figures in the movement do not recognize him as a reformist. They claim he is simply trying to achieve power, adapting his political positions to be able to maximize any potential support. He has recently traveled to some of Iran’s provinces to meet with reformist figures and activists around the country. Kavakebian was born in 1963 to a religious family in Central-Eastern Iran. He earned his Master’s from Iran’s prestigious Imam Sadeq University, and he earned his Ph.D. in Political Science from Tarbiat Modarres University. He has also studied Islamic theology at a religious institute in Tehran.
####January 21, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Mostafa Pourmohammadi####Photo: Mehr News Agency Mostafa Pourmohammadi is the head of Iran’s National Organization for Inspection, a judicial agency overseeing the constitutionality and implementation of laws. He served as Interior Minister in President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s first cabinet but was sacked due to conflicts, including financial disputes, with Ahmadinejad. After the dismissal, he became a critic of Ahmadinejad. Pourmohammadi has been accused of playing a key role in Iran’s mass execution of thousands of political prisoners during 1980s, based on the orders of Ayatollah Khomeini. Mostafa Pourmohammadi was deputy of the Intelligence Ministry’s foreign office from 1987 to 1999. During this period, agents of the ministry systematically engaged in extrajudicial killings of opposition figures, political activists, and intellectuals. These events came to be called Iran’s “chain murders.” In 2005, Human Rights Watch called on Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to relieve his interior minister for his involvement in grave human rights violation over two decades. Pourmohammadi was considered a potential candidate in the 2009 Presidential election but never entered the race. However, he has recently said that “after 33 years of service in several vital posts, I feel responsible to run for office” in the 2013 Presidential Election. Born in the holy city of Qom in 1959, Mostafa Pourmohammadi went to religious schools in Qom, Mashhad, and Tehran.
####January 18, 2013####Potential Candidate Series: Saeed Jalili####Saeed Jalili – Photo: Mehr News Agency Saeed Jalili is Secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council. He replaced Ali Larijani in this role in 2007, becoming Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator. This position is selected by Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Saeed Jalili started working in Iran’s Foreign Ministry in 1989 and during reformist President Mohammad Khatami’s second term in office (2001-2005), he was director of the European and American desks. Later he was elevated to Director General for the Office of the Supreme Leader. Jalili was considered a potential Foreign Minister, but he was named Deputy Minister for American and European Affairs. As Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council and chief nuclear negotiator, he has repeatedly negotiated with the so-called 5+1 countries, Britain, China, France, Russia, Germany, and the United States. Jalali has so far twice rejected an invitation for direct talks from the United States. His anti-Western views harken back to those of the revolutionary politicians who established the Islamic Republic of Iran in late 1970s. Jalili was born in 1965 and raised in Iran’s northeastern city of Mashhad. During the Iran-Iraq War, he served in the Revolutionary Guards on the front line. He lost half his right leg and is said to have survived two Iraqi chemical gas attacks. Jalili received his Ph.D. and taught Political Science at Tehran’s elite Imam Sadeq University, a conservative institution where many Revolutionary Guards and members of the Basij paramilitary are educated. The title of his doctoral thesis was “Foreign Policy of the Prophet Mohammad” and he later taught a course entitled “Diplomacy of Prophet Mohammad.”
####February 6, 2013####Potential Candidate Velayati says a “principlist” should win the election####Photo: Fars News Agency A senior advisor to Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ali Akbar Velayati has said today (Feb. 6) that if a conservative “principlist” does not become Iran’s next president, it will be a “disaster” for the country. “Principlists” is a term used to refer to Iran’s hardline conservatives, in line with the views of Supreme Leader Ali Khamanei. Velayti, himself a potential presidential candidate, was speaking in Iran’s holy city of Qom. He said that “If we [principlists] do not succeed, we have to try for another eight years in order to take back the country’s management.” Although Ahmadinejad, who is in office since 2005, has been known as a principlist president, during his second term, he was strongly criticized by hardliners close to Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei. Before Ahmadinejad, Iran’s presidency was in hands of Reformists for eight years. Velayati said those who belong to the “sedition and deviant current” have no place in the upcoming presidential election. Iranian Authorities use the term “sedition” to refer to the 2009 post-election demonstrations. “Deviant current” is also a term used by hardliners and strong supporters of Khamenei to refer to those in Ahmadinejad’s inner circle. Iran’s former foreign minister insisted in his remarks that principlists should unite for the upcoming presidential election. Ali Akbar Velayati, along with two other principlist potential candidates, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf and Gholam Ali Haddad Adel, have recently formed a coalition for that election. Iran’s 11th presidential election is scheduled for June 14, 2013. Election Timeline Updated
####June 15, 2013####Profile: Hassan Rowhani####Photo: ISNA Political moderate Hassan Rowhani has won election to serve as the seventh president of Iran’s Islamic Republic. He won the June 14 presidential election, receiving 18.6 million of the 36.7 million votes cast. Rowhani served as the Secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council for more than 16 years. Before his election to the presidency, he lead the Tehran-based think tank, the Center for Strategic Research. Rowhani is also a member of Iran’s Expediency Discernment Council, an advisory body to the Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei. Rowhani is a member of the Assembly of Experts, a body vested with authority to elect and remove the Supreme Leader. Rowhani is known to be close to both Supreme Leader and former President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the Chairman of Expediency Discernment Council. In a recent interview, Rowhani said “I always consult with Rafsanjani when it comes to important matters, but at the same time I am an independent figure.” Hassan Rowhani has a long history in Iranian politics and is a former deputy speaker of the parliament. In 2003, during the Presidency of Mohammad Khatami, Rowhani became Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator. Khamenei had requested his appointment, and Rowhani held the post for two years until he was replaced by Ali Larijani when Mahmoud Ahmadinejad came to the presidency in 2005. However, Rowhani remained a member of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council. Since then, he has sharply criticized Ahmadinejad policies, saying they are turning more nations against Iran and failing to fix the economy. Hassan Rowhani helped seal a deal with the European Union under which Iran suspended uranium enrichment, in October 2003, as a conciliatory gesture to the West. After he was replaced, Iran resumed those activities and has pushed ahead with them despite U.N. sanctions and resolutions demanding a halt. He has always voiced support for the formation of a nonpartisan government. The nonpartisan government that Rowhani has described, a coalition government formed by political figures from all parties and groups, has the same elements of Rafsanjani’s idea of a “National Unity Government.” However, Rowhani insists on avoiding Rafsanjani’s  term. Hassan Rowhani is a Shiite cleric, born in 1948. Until a January investigation by Iran Election Watch, Rowhani’s official bio on his think tank said he held a Ph.D. from the internationally acclaimed University of Glasgow. However, Rowhani actually holds a Ph.D. from the considerably less prestigious Glasgow Caledonian University. Rowhani’s think tank, the Center for Strategic Research, changed Rowhani’s educational history after our reporting.  
####May 21, 2013####Rafsanjani’s candidacy: No election for old men?####Left: The 2005 Shargh yearbook’s front-cover picture when Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani tried to regain the presidency. Right: Official poster for the classic movie A Man for All Seasons, directed by Fred Zinnemann. “This country’s hard on people, you can’t stop what’s coming, it ain’t all waiting on you. That’s vanity.” This quote from the movie No Country for Old Men may be just what members of Iran’s powerful Guardian Council are saying behind closed doors. There is widespread anticipation over whether the 79-year Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani will be allowed to run this year for Iran’s presidency. The Guardian Council has hinted through its spokesman that old candidates “might not be qualified” to run. This indication might pose trouble for Rafsanjani as the Guardian Council ultimately decides who is allowed to contest the presidential race. “I always thought when I got older God would sort of come into my life somehow. And he didn’t. I don’t blame him, I’d have the same opinion about me that he does,” says the soon-to-retire sheriff in the movie No Country for Old Men. According to Guardian Council’s spokesman, Abbasali Kadkhodaei, this is the first time the Council will base its qualification decision in part on a candidate’s age. “Until this election, there has not been a candidate with old age or a specific disability which would require us to provide specific commentary,” Kadkhodaei said in an interview with Iran’s Arabic news channel, Al-Alam Television. Kadkhodaei added that if anyone runs for an important executive position and “he is only able to work few hours a day, naturally he might not be qualified.” The final list of official candidates screened by the Guardian Council is scheduled to be announced on May 21. Iran’s Interior Ministry is in charge of releasing the list to public. The vote will be held on June 14. Before the release of the official list of candidates to run in Iran’s 2013 presidential election, is it fair to speculate: What are possible outcomes for the Guardian Council in deciding the issue of Rafsanjani’s age? Rafsanjani’s Long Track Record Mr. Rafsanjani is considered as one of the architects of Iran’s Islamic Republic establishment since its inception in 1979. Currently, he heads the influential Expediency Discernment Council, which decides on legal disputes between the parliament and the Guardian Council. As one of the fathers of the Islamic Republic, Rafsanjani has been speaker of the Iranian parliament for nine years, from 1980 to 1989, and served two terms as president, from 1989 to 1997. Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani (right) in 1989 helped engineer the rise of Ali Khamenei to become the Supreme Leader. Following the victory of the reformists in the 1997 presidential election, Rafsanjani gradually fell out with the establishment’s top leadership. In 2000, he ran for Parliament and lost, due to reformist opposition to him. Five years later, in 2005, he tried to regain the presidency and failed, losing to current President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. In the aftermath of widespread protests following the 2009 election results, Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei indicated he distrusted Rafsanjani and significantly, since then, Rafsanjani has not delivered a Friday sermon. If Rafsanjani fails again in the upcoming presidential election, most probably, it would be his last attempt to run for office due to his age. A Man for All Seasons? Robert Shaw (Henry VIII), left, and Paul Scofield (Sir Thomas More) in a scene from the movie A Man for All Seasons (1966). When Henry VIII declared himself ‘supreme head of the Church in England’, More resigned the chancellorship. Later, he was found guilty of treason and beheaded in 1535. To many people who support Rafsanjani’s candidacy in the June 14 election, he represents a man for all seasons, a pillar of the establishment. They see him as the only candidate capable of saving the sanctions-ridden country and standing up to the Supreme Leader. They support Rafsanjani in case of winning the Guardian Council’s approval to run. Rafsanjani’s supporters, in the 2013 election, portray him as a politician defined by his conscience. In a way, they conjure up the image of Sir Thomas More in the classic movie A Man for All Seasons. However, to Rafsanjani’s opponents he better represents Thomas Cromwell, More’s villainous enemy. A rival to More, Cromwell wholeheartedly backed the king of England and five years after More’s execution he himself met the same fate charged with treason. The movie Danton (directed by Andrzej Wajda – 1983) is about Georges Danton, a leading figure of the French Revolution, who was accused of financial corruption and collaboration with foreign powers. Danton was later guillotined. Rafsanjani in 1989 helped engineer the rise of Khamenei to become the Supreme Leader. During his eight-year presidency, 1989 to 1997, Rafsanjani promoted the Chinese model of an authoritarian state with a capitalist economic system. At the same time, the Islamic Republic executed many Iranians, including political and religious dissidents, Bahais, and ethnic activists such as Kurds. In 1999, when student protest was put down by the Revolutionary Guards and Basij militia, Rafsanjani praised the suppression and blamed foreign states and “enemies of the revolution” for the unrest. Now Rafsanjani is wrestling with the establishment and the individuals he helped solidify. Ironically, the Guardian Council that might prevent Rafsanjani from running for office, due to Rafsanjani’s age, is governed by Ahmad Jannati. Jannati, at 87, is eight years Rafsanjani’s senior.
####May 20, 2013####Reading into Khamenei’s words ahead of Iran’s election####Photo: Khamenei.ir Three recent speeches by Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, indicate increasing concern for security over other domestic issues as Iran’s election approaches. In the last two months, Khamenei has spoken at length on three occasions about his country’s June 2013 presidential election. In a March 21 speech on the Iranian New Year, Khamenei invited those of “all political orientations and currents” to participate in the upcoming elections. This speech was delivered in Mashhad, Khamenei’s native city. However, his tone was less conciliatory in two other speeches, held on May 6 and May 15. The second speech, and third speech were delivered at the Supreme Leader’s office in Tehran. A common thread in the speeches was seeing this year’s presidential election a “pivotal event” that needs “broad public participation.” To understand the meaning and shifts behind Khamenei’s speeches, Iran Election Watch has created a visualization. The images and graphs below show the shift in the frequency of select words common to the speeches. Visualization of word usage in Ayatollah Khamenei’s speech on March 21, 2013. The most frequently used four words in Farsi are “Elections,” “Vote,” “People,” and the “State”. Visualization of word usage in Ayatollah Khamenei’s speech on May 6, 2013. The most frequently used five words in Farsi are “Islamic Republic,” “People,” “Elections,” “the State,” and “Law”. Visualization of word usage in Ayatollah Khamenei’s speech on May 15, 2013. The most frequently used six words in Farsi are “the State,” “Elections,” “Nation,” “People,” “Law,” “Enemy”. The interactive visualization below deconstructs the trajectory of a few keywords unfolded in Khamenei’s three speeches.   The illustrations above from Khamenei’s three speeches underscore his vision for the upcoming election. Despite calling the current Iranian year in his New Year message as “the year of political and economic valor,” Ayatollah Khamenei’s focus shifted to include “security” and “enemy plots.” Khamenei urged that everybody “obey the law” in case of disagreement with the election result. In the third speech, he asked voters to choose a “resistant” president and he warned the electorate, much more than in the two previous speeches, to be wary of what he called the “enemy’s scheme.” Ayatollah Khamenei’s speech on May 15, 2013. From the speeches, Khamenei is skeptical of candidates making campaign promises to reform what happened during past years in Iran. “Pay attention to the slogans raised by candidates in their electoral campaigns, as some of them are making slogans incongruous with their authorities,” Khamenei said in the most recent speech on May 15. Khamenei believes Iran has progressed under current President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and asked people to elect the most qualified candidate to “move the country forward in a pace similar to the current one or even faster.” More than 680 people, most of them relative political unknowns, have registered to run in the presidential election to replace Ahmadinejad. The powerful Guardian Council is scheduled to announce on May 21 the handful of names that will appear on the ballot after its own vetting process. The Guardian Council is a powerful body of 12 clerics and jurists, all close to Ayatollah Khamenei. Half of the Council’s Members are appointed directly by Supreme Leader and the other half are indirectly chosen by him. In his recent speeches, Khamenei praised the Guardian Council, saying they help the people to choose the “most qualified” candidates. For the first time, Iran’s Interior Ministry is not the only entity in charge of overseeing the voting process on the election day. Under changes to the election law, the newly created Central Election Board, also close to Khamenei, has responsibility for overseeing the voting process.
####February 5, 2013####Senior Cleric warns about using the term “free elections”####Photo: Mehr News Agency In a statement published today, February 5, 2013, Senior cleric Mohammad Reza Mahdavi Kani, said those who talked about  the 2009 presidential elections as being “rigged”, are now instead talking about “free elections”. Chairman of the Assembly of Experts, a body vested with authority to elect and remove the Supreme Leader, added: “They want to question the results of the upcoming election in advance.” Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, Ex-president and current chairman of the Expediency Discernment Council, initially talked about “free” and “transparent” elections as a solution to the “country’s problems”. Later on, some reformist figures also started to use the term “free elections”. Rafsanjani’s statement provoked a reaction from the Supreme Leader who on January 8th stated: “We’ve held more than 30 elections since the [1979] Islamic revolution, which one was not free? In which country can you see elections freer than those held in Iran?” After Khamenei’s criticism, other Iranian high profile hardliners also denounced the use of the term. Election Timeline Updated
####March 25, 2013####Spring: A controversial word in Iran’s presidential election campaign####As the spring equinox arrived, as expected on March 20 in Iran, and the Persian New Year – Nowruz – began, one word has already become tremendously politicized, for those who observe the upcoming presidential election: “Spring”. During the past couple of months, the outgoing president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and his supporters have often used the word “Spring” in their speeches. Ahmadinejad’s opponents consider it as a form of premature campaigning, to endorse the candidacy of Ahmadinejad’s right-hand man, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, in the 2013 presidential election. So far, president Ahmadinejad and his main political ally and relative, Mashaei, with no attention to what the critics say, talked a lot about “spring”. Ahmadinejad’s New Year’s message was telling, as he used the word “spring” more than 20 times. Some political figures close to Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei have warned Ahmadinejad not to use the word ‘’spring’’, as campaigning is not yet legally allowed. Iran’s formal campaign period will begin in a few weeks’ time, and so critics have asked Ahmadinejad to avoid campaigning for his ally before it is officially allowed to do so. Upon their arrival to Iran from Egypt, February 8, Mashaei and Ahmadinejad were welcomed by supporters who were holding the slogan “Viva Spring” in their hands. On the anniversary of 1979 Islamic Revolution, February 10, 2013, Ahmadinejad’s supporters march along with others while holding “Viva Spring” placards. On March 18, “Khorshid” newspaper, which maintains close ties to the government, played with the main title’s words in a way that two meanings could be understood: 1) Your bosom friend, the spring, will come by the end of Esfand (last month of the Iranian calendar). 2) Your Esfandiar will come in the spring. In his public speech to commemorate Iran’s 1979 revolution, President Ahmadinejad finished his speech saying “Viva Spring”. On February 11 “Khorshid” newspaper, which belongs to Iran’s Social Security Organization, covered the speech on its front-page with the title “Spring in Spring - Viva Spring”. On March 16, the state-run newspaper “Iran”covered progress on Tehran to northern Iran highway construction, with a title: “In the land of Esfandiar, Tehran-North legend [referring to the highway] becomes real”.Esfandiar (Mashaei’s first name) is a legendary Iranian figure’s name. On March 18, the state-run newspaper “Iran” wrote about the beginning of the Spring on its front-page. On March 21, the “Khorshid” newspaper, which maintains close ties to the state’s Social Security Organization, reflected Ahmadinejad’s New Year’s speech, quoting him in the title as saying, “The Spring will come, The bosom friend is Alive, Viva Spring.” Upon their arrival to Iran from Egypt on February 8, Ahmadinejad and Mashaei were welcomed by their supporters who were holding signs with the slogan “Viva Spring’’. Upon their arrival to Iran from Egypt on February 8, Ahmadinejad and Mashaei were welcomed by their supporters who were holding signs with the slogan “Viva Spring’’. Upon their arrival to Iran from Egypt on February 8, Ahmadinejad and Mashaei were welcomed by their supporters who were holding signs with the slogan “Viva Spring’’. A poster designed by the group “Supporters of Islamic Government” with the term “Viva Spring” on it. This group was formed by a group of Ahmadinejad’s supporters in 2011. This jQuery slider was created with the free EasyRotator for WordPress plugin from DWUser.com. OK Rotator powered by EasyRotator for WordPress, a free and easy jQuery slider builder from DWUser.com. Please enable JavaScript to view. According to Iran’s Interior Ministry, campaigning can start once registration of candidates, which begins on May 7, is underway and only after candidates have been approved by the powerful Guardian Council. Moreover, the government is not allowed to campaign for any candidate. Also in early March, President Ahmadinejad infuriated his opponents when he awarded Mashaei the country’s highest medal and praised him as “a man who comes out of spring”. On that occasion, both men used the word numerous times. Ahmadinejad has on several occasions said that when he refers to the word ‘’spring’’ he is in no way hinting at the upcoming presidential election. In mid-February he said that by “spring” he means the “arrival of the ultimate savior,” the twelfth Shia Imam, Mahdi, and added: “Do you want me to say ‘Viva Fall’?” Mashaei also said, on March 17, that the government has “no slogan for the election” and does not intend to engage in the election campaign. At the end of his speech at the 34th anniversary of the Iranian Revolution, President Ahmadinejad used the term “spring” profusely. Upon his return from Egypt in early February, along with Mashaei, Ahmadinejad was greeted by dozens of supporters holding “Viva Spring” posters. By all accounts, for the first time, President Ahmadinejad used the term “Viva Spring!” [or“Long live this spring!”] at the UN general assembly in September 2012. Nonetheless, nowadays supporters and Tehran-based news outlets close to him also talk about “spring”, and refer to Mashaei more vividly than before.
####May 13, 2013####What the numbers say about Iran’s presidential hopefuls####With Iran’s presidential election just a month away, hundreds of would-be candidates have now registered to run for office. The Guardian Council, controlled by Iran’s Supreme Leader, vets would-be candidates deciding who can stand for election. Since 1981, the Council has barred hundreds of presidential hopefuls from running, and only a small group of candidates have been allowed to run in each of Iran’s subsequent elections. Among the leading candidates who have thrown their hats into the ring this year, three are considered “game changers.” Surprisingly, all three candidates entered Iran’s presidential race at the last moment when the registration deadline was about to terminate on Saturday, May 11. Former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani President Ahmadinejad’s top aide and confidant Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili For insight on the 2013 would-be candidate mix, Iran Election Watch has prepared the following interactive visualization: What the numbers say on Irans election hopeful candidates Comparison of the Number of Would-Be Candidates in Irans Last Four Presidential Elections
####2013 April 25####Western approach to Iran nuclear threat ‘non-constructive’####RelatedMahmoud Ahmadinejad has reviewed his last annual military parade as head of state of Iran. That role will go to someone else on 8 June.These occasions have, for him, always been about threatening the enemy United States and Israel. This last time, a week ago, he likened Israel’s talk about striking Iranian nuclear sites to “the harmless barking of a dog”.A few days later, the US Defence Secretary was visiting the region, partly with a sample case, so to speak, of weapons to sell to allies, notably Israel, but also to the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. This was Chuck Hagel’s way of sending Tehran a very clear signal.Neither side’s rhetoric has evolved much. Nor have talks involving the International Atomic Energy Agency watchdog. Another round of those is scheduled for mid-May. Diplomatic negotiations with the major western powers are also still in the doldrums.And, far from putting its nuclear programme to sleep, as these powers are urging, Tehran has stirred it up. Two new uranium mines were brought online earlier this month, to supply enrichment centrifuges.Iran’s ambassador to the UN nuclear watchdog agency has not offered specifics on how Iran could move to a cooperative dialogue with the West, which has demanded concrete Iranian action to allay international concern that it is trying to develop the means to produce nuclear weapons.The ambassador said on Tuesday that Iran will pursue all legal areas of nuclear technology, exclusively for peaceful purposes and that “…hostile policies of Western countries, including sanctions-and-talks policies, are doomed to failure.”Europe and the US have toughened oil and banking sanctions on the Islamic Republic, adding to its currency problems. Prices on imported basic foods have been affected the most, as Inflation has risen above 30 percent. But that has not made Tehran back down.Ahmadinejad cannot run again; he has served his maximum two terms. Whoever wins will inherit an economic and diplomatic ruin. But experts say that will not much change Iran’s policy on its nuclear programme.An interview with Ali Bagheru, Deputy Secretary of the Iraninian National Security CouncilEuronews: Whilst Iran is a signatory to the NPT, what can be the reason for the West’s lack of trust and why does the US say Iran poses the biggest threat to the credibility of the NPT?Ali Bagheri: In the Name of God. In the past years, some Western countries, including Americans, have adopted non-constructive and illogical approaches which show that they are, in fact, against the Iranian people benefiting from their rights including their rights as envisaged in the Non-Proliferation Treaty.IAEA inspectors [inspections] and also other tools used by the International Atomic Energy Agency in Iranian nuclear facilities as well as continuous supervision of the IAEA on these activities; leave no grounds for concerns over the nuclear activities of the Islamic Republic of Iran; the same as other countries who have such peaceful nuclear activities under the supervision of the Agnecy.Euronews: Mr. Bagheri, international politics and diplomacy is described as an arena for giving and taking. But how can we justify the economic and political prices that Iran is paying because of the uranium enrichment programme and the embargo? For example, in the situation after the recent bombings in Boston, US; now Canada has arrested two people whom it says are related to “alQaeda elements in Iran”.Ali Bagheri: This is exactly the proof of the illogical and non-constructive approach of some of these Western countries. I do remember when the European Union was about to write the MK [Mujahedin Khalq Organization] name off the EU’s list of terrorist groups. At that time, we were trying to tell the EU officials that this small group is a terrorist grouplet and it has commited tens of terrorist crimes; they blatently replied to us that as long as you do not work with us and do not step back, we will use the other means we have against you.We have a long history of the attitude of some Western countries towards the Islamic Republic of Iran. One of the reasons for theirfailure in dealing with issues regarding Iran is their lack of knowlege on such issues and their miscalculations. Anybody who is familiar with the basics of Shi’ism as well as the Salafism, know that these two religions have not only got no common grounds but they also have very serious differencesEuronews: Iran will soon have a new President and a new government. In your opinion, will the new president and the new government adopt a new approach regarding the nuclear issue or not? And if there is going to be such basic change, will such a decision be taken by the government or as it is said by the Iranian leadership, Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei?Ali Bagheri: I am confident that the presidential elections can open a new door towards the nuclear issue and the Islamic Republic of Iran can appear on the scene of the nuclear talks as well as the nuclear activities with more strength; and [I am confident that] it will present itself on new areas with power and authority, and show its readiness for cooperation with other countries including teh 5+1 [group of world power currently in talks with Iran] in different areas including the nuclear issue.Euronews: Ali Bagheri, Deputy Secretary of the Iranian National Security Council, thank you.Ali Bagheri: Thank you
####2013 May 07####Candidates register for Iran’s presidential election####RelatedThe registration process has opened in Iran for candidates to succeed Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in next month’s presidential election.Reports say more conservatives than reformists have put themselves forward.Most candidates are thought to want to defuse tensions with the West and a change from Ahmadinejad’s confrontational style.Hasan Rowhani, a former nuclear negotiator and an advisor to former President Rafsanjani, is among the frontrunners.“By forming a government of prudence and hope, I want to save the economy, re-establish morality in society and have constructive interaction with the world, and present honesty and righteousness to the people,” Rowhani said.The candidates have five days to declare their intention to stand. Iran’s Guardian Council will then decide whether they can.President Ahmadinejad is prevented by the constitution from running for a third term.His controversial re-election four years ago prompted major unrest. The leaders of the reform movement from that time remain under house arrest.
####2013 May 21####Blow for reformists as Rafsanjani and Mashaei are barred from Iran election####RelatedTwo important figures in Iranian politics including the former president, Akbar Hachemi Rafsanjani, have been barred from running in next month’s presidential election.In a blow to potential reformists, the list of eight cleared to stand by the electoral watchdog contains only candidates who are considered hardline conservatives.Also excluded by the Guardian Council is President Ahmadinejad’s former chief of staff, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei. He had already been described as a “deviant” by conservative clerics who suspect him of wanting to curb their influence.Rafsanjani – who was president between 1989 and 1997 – had been sidelined from power over tacit support for reformers at the last presidential election in 2009, which brought street protests amid claims of fraud.Last week around 100 conservative deputies in parliament launched a petition seeking to bar Rafsanjani and Mashaei from this year’s race.A spokesman for the Guardian Council said on Monday that it would bar physically feeble candidates, a comment seen by many as a hint that it could disqualify Rafsanjani.Among the eight candidates retained on the shortlist are Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili and former nuclear negotiator Hassan Rowhani.The Guardian Council’s decision means the next president looks set to be loyal to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
####2013 May 22####Iran presidential elections: who are the eight candidates?####RelatedThe race to succeed Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is entering the final stretch, with the list of candidates declared eligible to participate in the June 14 elections having been whittled down to just eight.The eight – all men – were approved by Iran’s Guardian Council, a 12-member body consisting of six jurists and six theologians, and whose task it is to approve candidates’ nominations and confirm the final election results.Registration for the country’s 11th presidential election took place from May 7 to 11, with more than 680 candidates putting their names forward. Former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s Chief of Staff Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei were amongst those who were barred from the ballot by the Guardian Council.The official election campaign will begin on May 24 and will end on June 13, the day before Iranians cast their votes.On June 15, the Presidential Commission will announce the official results, which the Guardian Council will either confirm or reject five days later.The newly-elected president will meet with the supreme leader Ali Khamenei on August 1 before being sworn in on August 3.The Guardian Council ruled that Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohsen Rezaee, Saeed Jalili, Ali Akbar Velayati, Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel, Mohammad-Reza Aref, Hassan Rouhani and Mohammad Gharazi are eligible to run for presidency.Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf (born August 23, 1961 in Torqabeh, Razavi Khorasan Province) is a candidate with the Secular Society of Engineers (ISE). A former military and police commander, Ghalibaf is the 54th and current Mayor of Tehran, serving his second term having first been elected in 2005.Mohsen Rezaee (born on September 9, 1954 in Masjed Soleyman, Khuzestan) is a candidate with the Moderation and Development Party (MDP). An economist and former military commander, he currently serves as the Secretary of the Expediency Discernment Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Before that, Rezaee was the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps chief commander for 16 years.Saeed Jalili (born September 6, 1965) is a candidate with Front of Islamic Revolution Stability party (FSP). Currently, he serves as the present secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council.Ali Akbar Velayati (born June 25, 1945) is a candidate with The Islamic Coalition Party (ICP). An academic and diplomat, he was the Minister of Foreign Affairs for more than sixteen years from 1981 to 1997 under Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Presidents Ali Khamenei and Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. He is the first and only person to held the post for more than ten years.Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel (born 1945) is a candidate with the Society of Devotees of the Islamic Revolution party. A philosopher and former chairman of the Iranian parliament, he is the first non-cleric in the post since the Iranian Revolution of 1979.Mohammad-Reza Aref (born 1951) is a candidate with the Islamic Iran Participation Front party. Aref is an academic, electrical engineer and professor at Sharif University of Technology in Tehran.Hassan Rouhani (born November 12, 1948) is a candidate with the Combatant Clergy Association party. He has been a member of the Assembly of Experts since 1999, a member of the Islamic Republic of Iran’s Expediency Council since 1991, a member of the Supreme National Security Council since 1989 and head of the Center for Strategic Research since 1992.Mohammad Gharazi (born October 5, 1941 in Isfahan) is an independent candidate. He served as Minister of Petroleum from 1981 to 1985 and Minister of Post from 1985 to 1997. He was also a member of the Iranian Parliament from 1980 to 1984.
####2013 May 22####Iran: Ahmadinejad challenges ally Mashaei’s election ban####RelatedIranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is challenging the ban of close aide Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei from the presidential election on June 14.Ahmadinejad said he would take the issue up with Supreme Leader Ayatolla Ali Khamenei.The President described Mashaei, his former chief of staff, as a “righteous person, beneficial for the country,” according to ISNA news agency.Former President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani was also ruled out of the shortlist of candidates – leaving the field dominated by hardline conservatives with close links to Iran’s ruling clerics.A Tehran resident said: “The decision regarding Mr. Mashaei was right my opinion, because he’s really not qualified enough for the presidency. But Mr. Rafsanjani’s disqualification was a real surprise, a big shock.”Out of more than 600 people who registered, only eight are being allowed to stand.Iran’s nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili is considered to be a front runner.
####2013 May 29####Swedish Parliament debates Iran Election####RelatedA member of the Swedish parliament said the political, social and economic system which Iran relies on is not long term sustainable in the long run. Not only because it is undemocratic but also it has become introvert, more dogmatic and more paranoid. People who were part of the regime are now excluded and are banned from presidential election.Fredrik Malm, head of the Foreign Relations Committee of the Liberal people’s party, the second biggest party in the Sweden coalition government, and a member of the Parliament’s Foreign Affairs Committee, was speaking at the conference of “Unity for Democracy in Iran (UDI)”, a coalition of different groups of the Iranian opposition , which was held in the Swedish Parliament in Stockholm.Mr Malm, speaking on behalf of his party that hosted the gathering, said: “It is important for our party to show international solidarity and it is important to us to talk and act for more tolerance in the world and more democracy in the world. Therefore we are very happy that we can host this very important conference, whose focus is on free election in Iran and the need for democracy and human rights in Iran”.Interview with Fredrik Malm; audio:The two day conference was the 4th such meeting held by UDI to discuss the legitimacy of the forthcoming Iranian presidential elections amongst other issues related to the country’s politics.UDI’s main objective is to push for free elections in Iran by uniting the exiled opposition political groups under one umbrella. In the Stockholm meeting, activists from different political and social backgrounds, ethnic minorities, and former diplomats, gathered to discuss and examine different ways to encourage holding a free election in Iran in accordance with accepted international norms. Human rights issues, economic sufferings and inflation, and the fate of minorities were also subjects of debate.The activities of UDI have angered the officials of the Islamic Republic of Iran, apparent from insults and negative labelling that have been published in state’sponsored newspapers and other affiliated government media.Last November following UDI’s third conference in Prague, the Czech Republic, Iran’s Ministry of Intelligence and Information demonstrated its agitation in its official website by denying there was any kind of unity amongst the exiled opposition groups.In his exclusive interview with euronews, Fredrik Malm explained his party’s views on Iran’s different issues, economic sanctions and military intervention. Fredrik Malm believes similar seminars are essential.Report by Feria Mohebbi
####2013 May 31####Iran gets first presidential TV debate####RelatedIranian voters have been treated to their first-ever televised electoral debate between the presidential hopefuls.The eight leaders in the running took part in a question and answer session during which all aspects of Iranian society were touched on. The favourite at this stage is Saad Jalili, currently steering Iran through international nuclear negiotiations.The debate also gave reformers a rare opportunity to get their messages across.“The most important thing in economics is to avoid authoritarism and individualism,” observed Hassan Rohani during the debate.There will be notable absentees, like former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, or the current president’s protegée, Esfandiar Mashaei.Ahead of the June 14th poll the Americans announced they would be partially lifting their economic and financial embargo of Iran to allow people access to “software, services and equipment for personal communication,” perhaps mindful of the “people power” that brought thousands into the streets after the last election.
####2013 June 04####Iran: Khameini tells presidential candidates not to give in to the West####RelatedIran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khameini has called on presidential candidates not to make concessions to the West.Several candidates have said they will sit down with international leaders to resolve the nuclear rift to get economic sanctions lifted.However, Khameini’s comments reminded presidential hopefuls that ruling clerics held sway in the Islamic Republic. He also insisted he had no favourite, despite international media reports to the contrary.Candidates face a slim economic inheritance as international sanctions over its nuclear ambitions continue to wreak havoc in the country. Inflation has reached 31 percent making life difficult for many.“I had a good income last year and it has been fine this year. The difference is last year I could put a bit of money to one side. But now saving is out of the question. Making it to the end of the month is my main concern,” explained one Tehran resident who works in computer programming.There is also the prospect of a ‘lost generation’ as unemployment rises to 13 percent.“Finding a job (is my biggest concern). Even if I get my masters (degree) there is no guarantee that there will be a job opportunity for me. Nothing is clear about the future,” said one Tehran student.With elections to be held on June 14, the US has issued fresh sanctions this time on Iran’s currency to put further pressure on the country to abandon its nuclear programme, which will further cripple the country’s economy.
####2013 June 04####Jalili’s ideologically-based firmness####RelatedSaeed Jalili, of discreet manners and worldly presentation, is also a combat veteran of the Iran-Iraq War of the 1980s, in which he fought with the powerful Revolutionary Guards, a point in common with Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.Born in 1965, Jalili is married to a doctor; they have one child.When Ahmadinenad was elected president in 2005, Jalili became his advisor, and then Deputy Foreign Minister for European and American Affairs. But his old friend did not support his candidacy in this election, instead backing Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei.Jalili was relatively unknown internationally until Ahmadinejad appointed him head of the National Security Council in 2007. Then he led the Iranian delegation in negotiations on the nuclear programme. He demonstrated what was interpreted as ideologically-based firmness in dealings with the West. During his tenure on the Council, the UN toughened sanctions against Iran three times.Some saw his approach as rigidity dressed in the language of diplomacy. For instance, he said: “As an active member of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, we are ready to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency, and it, as always, has the highest level of surveillance over Iran’s activities.”Jalili’s refusal to back down was appreciated by Iran’s Supreme Leader the ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to whom Jalili was faithfully devoted. He integrated this into his campaign.Jalili said: “We have said time and again that we seek to expand the power of Islam in the world and diminish the influence of arrogant powers.”Where Iran’s domestic affairs are concerned, the main stakes are reining in the growth of unemployment and high inflation. Jalili proposes that Iran’s increasingly dysfunctional economy be weaned off its heavy dependence on oil.
####2013 June 06####Iran’s complex political system####RelatedThe Iranian people will choose the man to replace Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on 14 June 2013. The country’s complex and unique political system has always raised questions about the extent of power, the president has as the highest publicly elected official and the second in command of the country.The Iranian political system is a combination of unelected powerful institutions, controlled by the Supreme Leader, and elected officials such as the president and members of parliament.Despite efforts by the Supreme Leader, the rift between those elected and unelected institutions have sometimes surfaced over the past two decades.The below infographic illustrates the Iranian political system and the Supreme Leader’s circle of power.Supreme LeaderThe Supreme Leader holds the ultimate political and religious authority.He appoints the heads of several influential organisations in the military, the government, and the judiciary. Although the president is elected by the public, the president-elect’s victory must be endorsed by the supreme leader.The Supreme Leader appoints/dismisses:- the chief of Staff of the Armed Forces- the head of the judicial system- the head of the radio and television network- six members of the powerful 12-member Guardian Council- the members of the Expediency Discernment CouncilHe has authority to:- set major domestic and foreign policies- dismiss the president- pardon or reduce convicts’ sentences- declare war and peace- issue decrees for referendumsPresidentThe President is the head of government and the highest publicly elected official.Unlike many other countries, the president’s role is more administrative than executive. The president does not have full authority over foreign policy, the armed forces or national security matters including the nuclear issue.The president is elected for a four-year term, limited to two consecutive terms, by direct public vote of the public, but presidential candidates are vetted by the Guardian Council.The president selects Cabinet members but they must be approved by parliament. Guardian CouncilIt is made up of twelve members. The Supreme Leader appoints six and the Parliament appoints the other half. The Council has to approve all bills passed by parliament and it has vetoing power over the bills passed by the parliament. It is charged with approving candidates for presidential, parliamentary. and the Assembly of Experts elections.ParliamentMembers of parliament are elected every four years by direct popular vote. The candidates must be vetted by the powerful Guardian Council. Ironically, half of the council members must be approved by the parliament.Members of parliament propose and pass legislation to be approved by the Guardian Council.Members can summon or impeach ministers or the president. The ministers have to be approved by members of parliament through confidence votes.Assembly of Experts:The Assembly of Experts is in fact the assembly of high clerics whose members are elected by direct popular vote every eight years.Member of this assembly are supposed to monitor the performance of the supreme leader and to remove him if he is deemed incapable or corrupted. However, in reality it has been proven to be very unlikely as their half-yearly meetings are more ceremonial than anything else.Another twist of power exists in the election process for this assembly. While, its main duty is supervising the Supreme Leader, the candidates for this assembly are vetted by the Guardian Council, half of whose members are appointed by the Supreme Leader.Expediency Council:It is an administrative assembly set up to resolve deadlocks and conflicts between the Parliament and the Guardian Council.The majority of its members are appointed by the Supreme Leader. Other members include some officials such as president, speaker of parliament, and judiciary chief.The council also acts as an advisory body for the Supreme Leader on domestic and foreign policies.Armed Forces:Iran’s armed forces include the regular army forces and the Revolutionary Guard which are under a joint general command.The Supreme Leader acts as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces who appointall major army and Revolutionary Guard commanders. They have to report to the Supreme Leader.The Revolutionary Guard is not limited to military activities, but it has been continuously expanding its presence in other fields such as the economy and intelligence.The Revolutionary Guard also oversees the Basij Resistance Force, a volunteer paramilitary organisation which has branches in virtually every town.JudiciaryThe judiciary is constitutionally an independent power, however, its independence has always been arguable by critics.The head of the judiciary is appointed by, and reports to, the Supreme Leader. This means that the judiciary is effectively controlled by the Supreme Leader.The judiciary enforces Islamic laws by drafting judiciary bills for parliament.The Minister of Justice is a member of cabinet who is chosen by the president from a list of candidates proposed by the head of the judiciary.TV and RadioIRIB, the public broadcasting corporation of Iran, is a giant state-owned corporation in charge of radio and television. It has the exclusive right to broadcast in Iran.With tens of thousands of employees and tens of TV and radio networks, IRIB is among the largest media organisations in the Asia and Pacific region.The head of IRIB is appointed by the Supreme Leader.Friday PrayersThe Friday prayer leaders call the faithful to Friday prayers in almost every town.The leaders are appointed directly by the Supreme Leader or through the Secretariat of Friday Imams in all the cities.The Supreme Leader can extend his religious influence to the grassroots of society through the appointment of Friday Prayers leaders.PeopleEligible voters can directly elect their representatives in presidential, parliament, and the Assembly of Experts elections.All candidates in the elections are vetted by the Guardian Council.The Supreme Leader is not elected directly by popular vote. However, the public can indirectly play a role in the process of selection or dismissal of the Supreme Leader through the Assembly of Experts, which is an elected house. Nevertheless, in reality it seems very unlikely that the house would exercise its right to supervise or dismiss the Supreme Leader. All Iranian nationals above 18 years of age are eligible to vote in presidential elections.By: Mohammad Mohammadi for euronews
####2013 June 08####Iran presidential rivals attack nuclear negotiator Jalili in TV debate####RelatedIran’s final TV debate between next weekend’s presidential election candidates has seen the hardline nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili attacked by rivals over his record.The fears of world powers that Tehran may be trying to build atomic bombs have seen sanctions intensified.The former Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati told Jalili:“You haven’t advanced even one step. Sanctions have been increasing every day, and the pressure is mounting on the people. The art of diplomacy is that you ease the sanctions and stop them from increasing while preserving the nuclear rights.”“The West are buying time so that the sanctions hit the economy more seriously. Do you call this resistance?” said former Revolutionary Guards Commander Mohsen Rezaei.Former negotiator Hasan Rowhani questioned Iran’s nuclear priorities, calling for more focus on the economy. Nuclear technology was fine, he said, “but only when people can make ends meet, when factories and industry run smoothly”.And there was still more criticism of Jalili from Tehran’s mayor, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf. “We need a shift in the managerial approach, and one part of this change relates to foreign policy. Diplomacy has not brought about the acceptable results we expected,” he said.Jalili, thought to be close to Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, defended his stance saying the previous “soft” strategy on the nuclear issue had failed.Although he is seen as a frontrunner he is evidently facing stiff competition.The vote a week on Sunday is the first since President Ahmadinejad’s controversial re-election four years ago. Reformists claimed his victory was rigged and protests were repressed.
####2013 June 08####The good, the bad…and Ahmedinejad: portrait of a failed presidency####RelatedWith Mahmoud Ahmadinedjad’s arrival in the presidency in 2005, a new era began for Iran.With the support of the Supreme Leader and the Conservatives right from day one of his government – the Islamic Republic’s ninth – he went on the offensive against his predecessors; using his popularity he accused them of incompetence. However, today the opposition and even certain members of his own camp level the same accusation against him.“I think that these last eight years has been the worst post-revolutionary period, for the people, too. An incapable leader with no grasp of management, with support from the head of the regime, has taken power, ruining the economy foreign policy and our culture in the process,” said analyst Reza Alidjani.The country’s nuclear development programme has enabled Ahmadinejad to shine for the Supreme Leader, but it is more and more responsible for Iran’s isolation. Negotiations have dragged on with no result for years, and their failure has led to severe economic sanctions.At the same time on an international level and from the UN’s lectern Ahmadinejad has angered the West, blaming it for all the world’s ills with his undiplomatic language.“Ahmadinedjad has denied key historic episodes in the world’s political history. He uses the language of the street, the underclass at home and on the world stage where he claims certain facts, like the Holocaust, are lies. He does not respect the UN’s resolutions. He presents himself as someone who ‘can solve the world’s problems’, with programmes to ‘guide everyone’ “, said Alidjani.With these political flourishes he has managed to become the champion of the poor and those who hate the West, and this is what makes him so popular with Muslims in the entire Middle East.As his first mandate ended hopes rose among the opposition to get him out of office, but the Supreme Leader once again supported his prince, and a second term was won at the expense of Mir Hossein Moussavi.The election, on June 13 2009, saw the start of mass demonstrations followed by arrests, murders, and mass condemnations of journalists and activists. The police and paramilitary militia violently suppressed the demonstrations, sometimes by shooting blindly into crowds. The uprising cost 150 lives, unofficially. Ahmadinejad called the vote “completely fair”, and “a great victory for Iran”. For him, the demonstrations were “unimportant” ; they just “raised some dust” in the streets.“Ever since Ahmadinedjad has been in power we’ve been in trouble, and when his second term was greeted with unrest the opposition was suffocated and put under even more pressure by the government,” said the International Human Rights Federation’s Abdol-Karim Lahidji.Human rights are violated in other ways, too. Opponents are frequently executed as “spies for the enemy” alongside real criminals. The death penalty is the ultimate sanction; Iran is only behind China for the number of annual executions, which can be imposed for non-violent crimes, or on minors. Sometimes the sentence is carried out with a public stoning.Ahmadinejad’s eight years in power have seen 2,670 people either hanged in jail or in public. Sixty percent of the condemned have been executed in public.“Information gets out of Iran despite the censorship, and the data shows that three times more people have been killed during Ahmadinejad’s second mandate than previously,” said Lahidji.The economy has suffered just as much. Inflation hit 30 percent in 2012, unheard of in the previous 17 years. Unemployment has ballooned to 20 percent, and no amount of monthly subsidies paid into people’s accounts can offset that.“I have three unemployed adults at home. The government says there’s no unemployment, no inflation, the economy’s fine and people are living well. It’s all lies,” said one woman out shopping.Ahmadinejad lost ground on the economic front, despite his support from the Supreme Leader and the Conservatives, who he nonetheless managed to, at best, partially enrage by going against some of them. The worst clash came in the National Assembly, where government and parliamentary leaders accused him of cheating, corruption, and abuse of power.His protective armour slipped. The Supreme Leader withdrew some of his support and no longer rode to the rescue. He even became critical of the president and his closest advisors.“Little by little Ahmadinejad started to irritate Ali Khamenei, and he’ll be punished for it. He lacked the proper respect for the the Supreme Leader, and, worse, behaved badly in front of him. Ahmadinejad doesn’t take risks. He never fought on the frontline when Iran was at war with Iraq, and he knows he will be punished for the way he has carried on with Khamenei.“There will be no place for him in the regime or in political life now, so I reckon he’ll go into finance and use the money he’s amassed with his entourage while waiting for the Supreme Leader to show him favour again,” said Reza Alidjani.Ahmadinejad came to power pledging to save the nation. But he alienated all his protectors, and the Iranian people will remember him for eight years of economic sanctions, poverty, and repression.
####2013 June 09####Iran’s exiles lament brain drain and miss home, but offer those trapped behind a voice####RelatedThe 1979 Iranian revolution saw the fall of the Shah and the return of Ayatollah Khomeini from exile in France. He returned, and five million Iranians left to go and live abroad. The first wave, which left hurriedly, was made up of people close to the Shah, and senior military and civil service personnel. They rightly thought the new regime would be a mortal threat.Iran was left to the revolutionaries. Every political group, from leftists to religious radicals saw the Shah’s fall and the arrival of Khomeini as a new era, and an end to dictatorship.But this feeling did not last. Soon, leftist or liberal groups with no religious affiliations were bloodily broken up. Thousands were executed and the rest fled abroad, their numbers increasing once Iraq declared war on Iran.Immigration was steadily fuelled by political repression, laws clamping down on women such as the obligatory wearing of the veil, and other extremist measures. The stream of people leaving became a flood. Among Iran’s neighbours there is emigration for economic reasons. But most Iranians leave mainly because of the political situation, not to find work. They want freedom, and they mostly find it in the West.In 2005, the day after Mahmood Ahmadinejad’s presidential election, all hope of improvement or reform evaporated, and Iranian emigration went up another notch.Thousands more left in 2009 following Ahmadinejad’s controversial re-election and the wave of killings and repressions that followed. Many activists had no choice but to leave by crossing dangerous frontiers.Bahman Amini runs a publishing house, Khavaran, in Paris. He fled in the 1980s, and has since published several books detailing the lives of political prisoners and refugees. He says in many cases fleeing the regime has cost dissidents their lives.“Many fugitives, I would say refugees, died trying to leave Iran, notably via Turkey or Pakistan. In the harshest of conditions they had to leave by night, in the cold or in the snow, on horseback, however they could. Some were caught, and many political activists or fugitives were quickly executed. We have their names. Sometimes fugitives were even extradited back to Iran,” he claims.Forced emigration or exile is never easy. But for several years, and thanks to new technologies and means of communication, the exiles have been able to stay in contact with home. Mana Neyestani is an exiled Iranian caricaturist and journalist. He has lived in France since 2011 and has published two books.“The first and second generation of Iranian immigrants felt isolated abroad. Today they don’t feel that. I think that the internet age with its virtual spaces and social networks has changed the nature of exile. My territory is the internet now. Soon you might be able to download me…(in other words) you click on a button and you’ll receive me at home. I’m more in the internet than in Paris, or even Iran,” he says.These new technologies and networks have strengthened relations between the Iranian diaspora and home. This means events there have a direct impact on the communities abroad, especially when Iranians feel a danger to the values and people of Iran.As an example, in the demonstrations against the 2009 election hundreds of thousands of people broadcast the aspirations of the crowds on Iran’s streets from within Iran itself. The exiles are beyond Tehran’s reach and cannot be cowed or suppressed; they are able to retransmit the otherwise censored internal opposition to the world, which makes the regime even angrier.“One of the events of 2009 in Paris was the Green Petition. It was unprecedented. More than 200 cities around the world took part. From Dushanbe or Tajikistan or India, groups of Iranians wrote a simple phrase on a green tissue: “Ahmadinejad is not our president”, and sent it to Paris. We put them all together here in a ribbon several kilometres long, and then showed it near the Eiffel tower,” says Neyestani.Iran’s social and political instability, and the ever-worsening repression at universities of professors and students has led to a number of intellectuals, experts and students leaving.The IMF puts Iran top of the brain-drain list in 91 underdeveloped or developing nations, and in the same report claims Iran loses over 100,000 highly-qualified people every year – that is over 400 a day. The cost? About 50 billion dollar (38 billion euros), and the damage done to the economy and society is irreparable.“Our brains are leaving for the simple reason that they cannot live or work in Iran. I think everyone would prefer to live where they are born and have grown up, but when you are made to feel unwanted, or your work is belittled, you naturally prefer to go where you are appreciated and your skills are valued. This is why the brain drain is dragging us down,” concludes Neyestani.
####2013 June 11####Aref drops out of Iran presidential race in favour of ‘dark horse’ candidate####RelatedWith just a few days to go, Mohammad Reza Aref has dropped out of the presidential race in Iran.On his website he explains that the head of the reformist movement Mohammad Khatami had asked him to withdraw.It follows recent calls for Aref to quit in favour of moderate candidate Hassan Rohani.Of the six remaining hopefuls, most are conservatives with close ties to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. One conservative, Gholam Ali Haddad Adel also quit the race on Monday.Though not a declared reformist Rohani’s rhetoric appears to be aimed at their voters.Political analysts believe the former nuclear negotiator and Muslim cleric could be the dark horse, appealing to moderates in the country. He has called for an end to political suppression and the release of all political prisoners.Reformists have felt sidelined since the 2009 election, which led to Ahmadinejad’s reelection. Rohani blamed the president’s hardline policies for international sanctions which have crippled the economy.
####2013 June 12####Iranian elections – Nobel Peace Prize winner Shirin Ebadi talks to euronews####Iran is a country where the ruling class seems to thrive on hostility to the west and where much of the population is repressed, and living in dire poverty.Iranians are now poised to vote in a new president, so what impact could this vote have for Iranians and the international community.?Iranian Nobel Peace Prize winner Shirin Ebadi spoke to euronews. She was recognised for championing democracy and human rights in her home country. She now lives in exile.euronews’ Isabelle Kumar: “In past elections we’ve heard of political dissidents being persecuted, targeted. What are you hearing now?”Ebadi: “Those events occurred in 2009. At that time, due to the extreme violence of the government, protests in the streets stopped. But the people are now manifesting their displeasure by different means and are showing they are not happy.”euronews: “The people are also scared, are they not, because in the past universities were a hub of political activity and we get the sense, here at least, that there’s a sense of apathy, that youth are too scared to become politically engaged.”Ebadi: :Our youth are not indifferent and they are active. That is why, today, many of our students are in jail and others have been expelled from universities.”Bernard Smith, from the United States, sent a video question: “How significant is this election?”Isabelle Kumar added: “This is something we ask ourselves, because could this election be a turning point or with the Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei, in power, can we expect just more of the same?”Ebadi: “These elections are not free, like previous ones, and the final decision, with respect to important political issues, lies with Mr Khamenei. In my opinion, the election itself is not important. We must wait and see if, as in 2009, people go out onto the streets or not.”euronews: Do you think that the voting process is fair, given that already that the Guardian Council has selected the candidates, can we expect that, at least to be fair?”Ebadi: “The current election organisation and supervision system, in my opinion, is fraudulent, and that is why I have suggested free elections are held under the supervision of the UN. Of course, I know that the government will not accept this. Only international supervision will prevent electoral fraud.”Alicia, from Spain, also sent a video question, asking about the atomic project: “I want to know how the outcome of these elections will affect Iran’s nuclear programme.”Isabelle Kumar added: “Said Jalili is considered one of the front runners in this election, he’s also Iran’s nuclear negotiator. If he were elected could we expect a change of tack from Iran, regarding its nuclear programme?”Ebadi: “Whether the winner is Saeed Jalili or someone else, it will not alter [Iran’s] nuclear policy. Because in this area [Supreme Leader] Ali Khamenei is the only one who makes decisions and he will not let the President make changes.”euronews: “There has been pressure from the international community, in the form of sanctions, you’ve spoken out against those, but what alternative does the west have when its negotiating partner is intransigent?”Ebadi: “I’m against a military invasion or economic sanctions, because it causes a lot of harm to people. Instead, [the west] should adopt policies which directly target those who violate human rights. Instead of punishing Iran with economic sanctions, punish those responsible for violations of state and human rights.”Irena is also from Spain. Her video question concerns life in Iran now: “I would like to know what the real situation in Iran is, because it seems quite complicated. Thank you very much.”Isabelle Kumar asked: “In some respects, Shirin Ebadi, our vision of Iran is fed by films like ‘Argo’, by the hard-line rhetoric that we hear from the ruling class. In a nutshell what’s the real Iran like nowadays?”Ebadi: “The feminist movement in Iran is very strong; one of the strongest existing in the Middle East. Our union movement is strong; many of our organisers are in jail. We also have a very strong student movement which has resulted in the arrest and imprisonment of student activists. The Iranians are peaceful, because for 34 years they have lived with the revolution and they also endured the eight-year war with Iraq; this is too much for one generation. So while the Iranians are not happy with the situation at the moment, they want any changes to be made peacefully. They are tired of war, of violence.”euronews: “Finally, you have been a champion of the cause of women, of the repressed in Iran. What’s your message to those people?”Ebadi: [To] The people of Iran, you must resist to win your rights. Keep your resistance peaceful and know that victory will come.”To find out who the next ‘I-talk’ guest will be, or send us written or video questions, check on www.euronews.com, or follow Isabelle Kumar or euronews on social media.
####2013 June 13####Iran: Media blackout####RelatedIran has imposed strict media restrictions on both foreign and Iranian journalists ahead of presidential elections on Friday.According to international watchdogs, visa applications for most foreign journalists wishing to cover the elections have been rejected or ignored.Those who have been allowed into Iran are being kept under a tight watch. Soazig Dollet from Paris-based organisation, Reporters Without Borders, explained:“It’s difficult for foreign journalists to move about freely in Iran. They are permanently under the surveillance of mandatory translators chosen by the Tehran regime. It is impossible for them to attend electoral meetings organised by so called “opposition candidates”“.Internet access within Iran has been either blocked or slowed to a near stand-still as authorities bid to stem the flow of information.Iranian journalists have not escaped the blackout either. In the run-up to the election they have been targeted along with political activists in regime sponsored arrests and harassment.Election polls open on Friday, with hardliners still split on one candidate to support, potentially splitting their vote, increasing the chances of victory for moderate candidate Hassan Rohani.Watching the results with interest will be those denied access to the country, hoping their chances of admittance for future elections may begin on Friday.
####2013 June 13####Iran’s candidates hold their final rallies ahead of Friday’s election####RelatedIran’s six candidates vying for the presidency in Friday’s election have wrapped up their campaigns allowing for a day of reflection before the vote.So far none of the three main hardliners including Saeed Jalili, Iran’s nuclear negotiator, appears to be ahead in the contest. He alone among the candidates is defending Iran’s current robust, ideologically driven foreign policy.However fellow hardliner, former Mayor of Tehran, Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf has largely avoided ideology preferring to focus on economics.Whoever does win will inherit an economy struggling under the weight of international sanctions imposed over Iran’s disputed nuclear system.The other major hardline hopeful, former foreign minister Ali Akbar Velayati also agrees with the substance of Iran’s present policies.The one man to be considered a moderate among the conservative dominated line up is Hassan Rowhani. Momentum has been building behind him due to the lack of any real reformer for liberal Iranians to support.All six presidential hopefuls have stressed their support of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei – the man who holds the real power in Iran.Are you optimistic that a new president in Iran will mean better relations with the West?
####2013 June 14####Bonus interview: an Iranian homosexual in exile####RelatedIn Iran, homosexuals risk the death penalty. Human rights ngos estimate that several hundred of them have been executed since the islamic revolution of 1979. We spoke to one of those who has recently taken refuge in Turkey, after he and his boyfriend were threatened by the authorities. His identity is not disclosed, for security reasons.interview:“We had started our life together, we were sharing a flat. We had been living together for four or five years. And then one day someone at his workplace denounced our relationship . He had pictures of us on his laptop. One of his colleagues saw them, and told the company’s security office, linked to the intelligence services at the Ministry of Interior.He was a civil servant, and he was under harsh interrogation for that. They wanted to send him to court, it was very serious for them. With everything that was happening n the country, our situation was more and more difficult. We decided to leave.A lot of our friends were arrested during parties, and imprisoned. some got very long sentences. Or they were whipped, several times, or tortured. Everyone knows about that. There was a famous case, during a big party in Ispahan. Friends were arrested, the regime wanted to kill them. Thanks to the support and pressure of international organisations, the regime finally had to set them free, though they were in prison for some time, and tortured.After me and my boyfriend left, he had to go back to Iran only one week later, because something serious happened. The security forces had gone to his parents’ place, to interrogate them. They arrested his father. And his mother had a stroke. So they put pressure on my boyfriend, and told him that if he didn’t come back, his family would suffer the consequences. He had to go back to Iran, and i haven’t had any news from him for the past 3 or four months. I don’t know what happened to him. I ask everyone I can, and nobody answers me clearly. I can’t call his family, because very time I tried, either they hang up, or the line is cut off as soon as I say hello. I don’t know what is going on. I tried through facebook, to contact our common friends. They all tell me they are afraid to go and ask for information about him, so I don’t know aht to do. I don’t have any news. My greatest concern is to know what has happened to him.We came here to go and ask for asylum at the UNHCR, to go to a third country where we could live, a bit more freely. We weren’t asking for much. Just to go to a country where even if people find out about our tendency, though we don’t publicise it, at least we won’t be afraid to be persecuted or even killed, or have to leave the country because we are homosexual, or wait for someone to come and get us, arrest us, all these things that happen in Iran. I hope that one day in Iran we will have freedom. And that everyone will be able to lead a comfortable and peaceful life. That everyone, homosexuals, like me, will no longer have problems and will be able to live freely. I hope that some day people will accept me as I am without prejudice, whether I’m homosexual, bisexual, or heterosexual. And that people will accept me as someone who wants to lead a decent life, and can be useful to our society.”
####2013 June 14####Bonus interview: Sobhan, a Baha’i Iranian refugee####RelatedBaha’ism is a faith founded in the 19th century, which groups an international community of believers who wish to be considered as members of an “Independent, world religion”.Since the creation of the Iranian Islamic Republic in 1979, the 350000 baha’i of Iran have been discriminated and repressed, to an extent which has been denounced by international human rights organisations.Their faith having been created after Islam, it is not considered as a religion by the regime. Ali Khamenei, the Supreme guide of the Revolution, has alledgedly recommended in an internal document to “block their progress and development”, “ban them from University”, and “block their access to employment if they identify themselves as baha’i”.Many members of this community have been executed. Many others have left Iran. Among them , we met Sobhan, who sought refuge in turkey in the hope of getting asylum in another country, where he can build his future, which he explains is denied him in Iran.Interview“I think the principles are not the issue. The issue is you are not part of us. If you say a lot of good things it doesn’t matter, it’s not the point. You are not muslim so is enough for you to be denied your rights. Our principles I think are very modern, very good. They talk about truth,they talk about equal rights between men and women. We have about 12 principles and if you talk with anyone, any logical person would accept these principles as good modern community principles.When I was in school, we had religious courses, and our teacher was saying Islam is the best religion in the world. And other religions are completely wrong and you cannot go by their rules. So as a baha’i child, I was thinking that maybe there was something wrong with me.Maybe my family is saying wrong things to me. Or maybe school teaching something wrong. I had a conflict with myself and after that…playing in the street, the other kids were pointing at me as a baha’i child; “you are not clean, you are dirty..” As a child I couldn’t imagine what was the problem. Maybe I would just wash my hands and its goes ? But it wasn’t like that…I carried this feeling until I went to high school. Again a lot similar stories happened to me: “you are baha’i, you have to change your mind, you have a lot of problems in your mind, you’re wrong”.After my high school I went to play music, I play the guitar. One of my friends introduced me to a composer, we played music and we even made four tracks. But once they understood I was baha’i they didn’t continue working with me. Because they told me “you don’t have the permission to work, because you are baha’i, and you won’t get permission”.When I wanted to enter University, as a baha’i, we can’t go. We don’t have education rights to go to university. So we just we built a very small organisation, as Bihd. Our teachers, students, had classes in houses. We didn’t have many classes, we just studied the books, and at the end of the term we just passed the quizzes, and it was the end of our University. So after 2 terms I decided to go to other universities, the official universities.I just filled my application, with my name, my family name, but at the end you have to chose your religion. This is something I don’t want to share, this is my private belief. But they asked and they forced me to answer. As a baha’i, as a person, as a child raised in a baha’i family, what did they expect from me? I will answer as a baha’i. I’m not afraid of anyone. But the result is that I can’t go to university. And we pay this price, and we go to our private university with low quality.”Question: Would you say that you left Iran because you couldn’t do anything as a baha’i or because you couldn’t do anything as a young man?“No, no. Even if just a young man its enough to decide to leave Iran. Because right now Iran doesn’t have a good government, doesn’t have good conditions. But as a baha’i I have a lot more specific problems. Baha’is can’t get official jobs, they can’t work for government. If a baha’i becomes rich, they will stop them, limit them, they want to restrict them because they don’t want a baha’i to become powerful.I have a lot of friends, I have my family in Iran. But right now I don’t think I will come back to Iran. In these conditions, I don’t think I can stay in Iran, I can have any opportunity, I can have a good future. Because of this, I think.. Iran doesn’t belong to me. Even if I belong to Iran, Iran doesn’t belong to me. So it’s not something that I can chose, nor can I change it. I have to accept “
####2013 June 14####Bonus Mansour Osanlou interview####RelatedMansour Osanlou is one of the most famous trade union leaders of Iran, who was the head of the Tehran bus drivers union. He was emprisonned and tortured several times by the regime for his union activities, and finally released in 2011 for health reasons. He continued his activities underground, and after receiving serious threats, crossed the border illegally to seek refuge in Turkey last february. We met him with famous activist Kouhyar Goudarzi, in the streets of Ankara, on his way to meet friends in Istanbul. He continues to fight for Iranian workers rights from his exile.Interview:“The government never allowed anything to form. It launched policies that degraded the country’s economy very badly during last few years. And as a result of that the most affected has been the working class Big industries like petrochemistry, mining, metal industry, including steel and copper, which don’t depend so much on international markets, apart form the automotive industry, which is limited to assembly in Iran, were not as affected as much by the international sanctions as the small and medium size entreprises, which were badly hit by the sanctions in many other sectors.That and the lack of clear economic planning, the lack of people’s contribution in the decision making process, and the lack of a common vision as to building the future, led our country to be more and more polarised day by day. The productive sector of the economy was no longer able to produce, which led to a high rate of redundancy, layoffs and unemployment in the working classOn the other hand, even before the sanctions and the unfruitful policies of the government affected the country’s economy, there were massive imports of chinese products, both legally and illegally. Mr Ahmadinejad labeled the traffickers as “brother traffickers”. And as highlighted Mr Karoubi, the big commercial ports are controlled by the leaders of the guardians of the revolution. The mere fact of importing such products, especially textile and shoes, but also furniture, home appliances, has generated a lot of unemployment in small and medium entreprises of these sectors. Many went bankrupt and workers were made redundant.Many people were laid off in the name of restructuring. Those who are still employed are under high economic pressure. Because of the sanctions, the bad economic policies of the government, and the change of subsidy policies. They have replaced subsidies by small monthly allowances which are delivered to low income families. But they have cut subsidies for basic goods like sugar, rice, bread,or fuel. They have cut these subsidies for the basic needs of people. over the last four years. Now even according to government statistics, I can claim that for some goods prices have gone up four times. But the level of income for workers in Iran has risen at the most by 80 percent. So the buying power of working class has decreased by one fourth or one fifth. And this applies only to employed workers whose employment contract is regulated by labour laws. A big majority of the workers are working in services and small production companies. And for many of them, the working conditions are not even regulated by the Islamic labour law, and do not comply to minimum wage regulation. I can strongly claim that a huge proportion or our workers, cannot afford to meet even 10 percent of their basic needs with their salary.Despite the fact that from 2005 to 2007, and still today, the government has cracked down on workers’ unions, the original kernel of resistance is still there.The arrests, expulsions, lay-offs, prison threats, lay offs of working class and the whole repression of the society inevitably will affect the dynamic and development of society as a whole and specifically the existence and development of labour movement.But nevertheless, when people get arrested and are put in prison, they will meet others who are struggling, even though for different causes, they are resisting and they are standing for their rights, and they find themselves with a common and collective experienceThis helps them reach the same understanding, and when they get out of prison, they are more mature and more knowledgeable than before.Question: do you expect anything from these elections ?In Iran you should always expect the unexpected. I’m saying this because of what has happened before. When nobody thought anything could happen, we say millions of people in the mass protests in 2009, and it lasted 6 months. And even before that, nobody would predict that after the difficult years of Rasfanjani’s presidency, in 1997, we would have elections where people saw they could get some rights. The aftershock of that is still there. As a result, a large portion of the population became aware of their rights and they spoke for themselves. From then there was a debate about citizens rights, individual rights, the rule of law. We never had this before. And even today, this debate has influenced social, political, legal forums, and even had some weight in the discourse of the government and politicians, included in the political propaganda.At the present time I wouldn’t say that the election itself can change anything. Or that people will get a chance to chose who they want. But it’s always been the case that in certain situations, like right now with the crisis that we have in the country, and while the government is facing a difficult time internally and internationally, people reached a level of new political awareness. Bearing in mind there is so much dissatisfaction and pressure within the society, I could expect something to happen, not necessarily during the elections, or even not a little after the elections.But when there is no stability and balance in the society and there’s a huge gap between the rich and the poor, and on the other hand a widespread and deep political repression, using excessive force in the streets, it creates a critical situation. And in critical situations things might happen than nobody can predict.As a conclusion, in a society which is in a deep crisis, you could expect the unexpected.
####2013 June 14####Hassan Rohani liberals’ hope in Iran####RelatedCleric and former nuclear negotiator Hassan Rohani enjoys the support of many liberal-minded Iranians and moderates and reformists in his bid to become president of the Islamic Republic. Rohani’s credentials include membership in the Assembly of Experts and Expediency Council and Supreme National Security Council.His track record proves his talent for working effectively with various factions, and, more than other candidates, his attitude – at age 64 – for change, both in Iran’s internal policy and internationally.His degrees in law include a doctorate from Scotland’s Glasgow Caledonian University.The foreign policy veteran who moves in the same circles as Iran’s ruling clerics told supporters at a campaign rally which included former high-placed political figures: “I came here to establish a government of wisdom and hope, for the sake of Islamic Iran, to salvage the economy, to have constructive interaction with the world and to resurrect morality in society.”Rohani is said to favour negotiations to resolve Iran’s nuclear dispute with the West, at the same time as standing up for his country’s right to pursue peaceful development of a civil nuclear energy programme. Allaying the suspicion of major powers that Tehran harbours atomic weapon ambitions would be the key to having US-led sanctions lifted.Rohani has also spoken out in recognition of how much needs to be done in Iran to improve the standing of women and ethnic minorities.
####2013 June 14####Iran’s presidential candidates cast their votes####RelatedAs Iranians went to the polls to choose their next President, so too did the six candidates wanting to replace outgoing leader Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.Cleric Hassan Rohani, considered to be the only moderate in the race, cast his vote in Shahr-e-Rey, south of Teheran on Friday morning.None of the candidates are seen as challenging the Islamic Republic’s 34-year-old system of clerical rule.Tehran Mayor and presidential candidate, Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf, has pledged to keep pursuing Iran’s nuclear intentions.Saeed Jalili, Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator, is seen as the main conservative contender. He wants to continue with the current foreign policy.Ali Akbar Velayati, the former foreign minister and adviser of Supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is another conservative candidate, backing Iran’s nuclear plans.Arguably Iran’s most important vote is that of its supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who makes all major decisions in the country, including the direction of foreign policy.Millions of Iranians turned out to vote, urged to come out in force to discredit suggestions by the United States that the election would be unfair.Security is tight with arrests and curbs on activists and journalists ahead of the polls.The full results of the election could take up to 3 days to come in.
####2013 June 14####Iran’s Qalibaf presidential hopeful a former general and police chief####RelatedPresidential candidate Mohammad Qalibaf is predicted to score well in voting in Iran’s big cities. The current Mayor of Tehran has done a lot for the capital – its road systems, parks, public transport and improving communities on the outskirts. His popularity is high.He ran for president in 2005, when he was just starting out in politics. He had just got out of military uniform, that he’d worn since he was 18, when he went to fight in Iran’s war against Iraq.But it was the Mayor of Tehran at the time who won: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Qalibaf, who ran as an independent, came in fourth. He hopes now that he’s paid his dues in the voters’ eyes.Qalibaf’s reputation then wasn’t good. He became a general quite young, which meant he was put in charge of the crackdown on student unrest in 1999. The year after that, the Supreme Leader appointed him chief of police, a post he held till 2004. He reformed the force on the one hand, while arresting intellectuals on the other.When his bid for the presidency failed in 2005, he consoled himself by running Tehran instead, and Ahmadinejad criticised what he did, the friction between them regularly covered in the media. Recently, Qalibaf has courted both moderate conservatives and reformers.He has based his campaign mostly on economic themes. He has repeatedly stressed his own modest origins, and promised the poor he would create jobs and bring down inflation. But he hasn’t ignored the middle class, either in cities or in rural areas.He has stayed away from discussing the nuclear programme but has constantly criticised the Ahmadinejad administration’s foreign policy.The 51-year-old has a Ph.D. in political geography and is also a former Islamic Republic Air Force commander.
####2013 June 14####Iran’s Valayati a compromiser with West####RelatedAli Akbar Velayati is widely considered as serious competition up against rival Iranian presidential candidate Said Jalili, whom many would say is the frontrunner in the race.Velayati, a 64-year-old paediatrician by training, takes a different approach to Jalili on international and notably nuclear questions. He wants to pursue compromise, a position which he has amplified recently, to some general surprise, since that goes against the trend in the dominant conservative camp.He was the conservative alliance’s candidate of choice in the 2005 presidentials, but he pulled out, making this race his first. He has substantial support from various Iranian clerics.Velayati began his political career in the early 1980s, following the Islamic Revolution, when he was elected to parliament. Passed over for the job of prime minister under Khamenei’s presidency, he was appointed to the foreign affairs portfolio. He kept this after Rafsanjani was elected president in 1997.Then he became international affairs advisor to Ali Khamenei, who had become Supreme Leader – also rubbing elbows with outgoing President Ahmadinejad, although lately he has criticised the latter in his approach.Velayati is known for his strong conservatism, and in the past he would lash out at the United States and Israel. He compared George Bush Junior to Hitler.Velayati chose not to run in 2005. This time, his campaign camp has been saying, he will stay the course against all rivals to the end.
####2013 June 14####Iranians head to the polls to elect new president####RelatedPolls opened in Iran at 08:00 local time (5:30 CET) in a presidential election that brings an end to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s eight years in power. Six candidates are in the running.Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili advocates continuing with Ahmadinejad’s ideologically-driven foreign policy.His two main conservative rivals – Tehran’s mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf and former foreign minister Ali Akbar Velayati – have both pledged not to back away from pursuing Iran’s nuclear intentions, but have criticised Jalili’s inflexible negotiating stance.The conservatives face cleric Hassan Rohani – considered to be the only moderate in the race.
####2013 June 14####Khamenei leads Iranian voters to polls####RelatedVoting is well under way in Iran’s presidential election, with Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei casting his ballot in Tehran whilst telling the nation he “did not give a damn” about American suggestions the election was unfair.Some 50 million voters have to choose from six candidates, all approved by the Guardian Council, and all with a similar conservative point of view.Leading the hardliners will be Saeed Jalili, but all the men are critics of the outgoing administration of Mahmoud Ahmedinejad, and have insisted they will bring change. Tehran’s outgoing Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf may do well, as he is seen as having improved life in the capital during his tenure.Public enthusiasm for the vote appeared weak until the final hours of campaigning, when reformists, liberals and moderates threw their weight behind Hassan Rohani. This brought crowds into the streets, although not in the numbers seen in the 2009 election.The most prominent moderate candidates from that vote, Mir Hussein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, have been under house arrest since then.
####2013 June 14####Voting ends in Iran elections####RelatedVoting has ended in Iran’s elections. The deadline was extended on four occasions during the day. The head of Tehran elections headquarters says he estimates 70 percent of eligible voters in Tehran have cast their ballot. Media outlets have suggested the figure is more like 75 percent.The interior ministry has said results will start to be announced by state radio and television from two o’clock local time which is 23.30 Central European time.The ministry said it does not confirm any other figures released by other sources.One independent pollster IPos saying 64-year-old cleric Hassan Rohani, seen as a leading moderate leading the race with around 38 percent of the vote.One source in the US has claimed the Interior Minister has told reporters that early results indicate Rohani is leading with Mohammad Ghalibaf second and Saeed Jalili third.Candidates’ representatives have said in a joint statement that no one will claim victory before the announcement of the official results.
####2013 June 15####Iranians see Rohani win as potential game-changer####RelatedThe Iranian people have delivered a shock result in the country’s presidential election, massively throwing their weight behind the relatively moderate candidate Hassan Rohani.His outright victory, without the need for a second round is a veritable political earthquake, and on the streets of Tehran some are seeing it as payback for the events of four years ago.“Despite the things that happened after the 2009 elections and the bad feeling that the people had, they decided to vote and they showed that they can change the current situation with reforms.”“Threatening the outside world and adopting policies that could trigger tension and policies that could lead to the sanctions becoming more serious and more dangerous should be given up. On the other hand, we must admit that the next president is the president of the ‘Islamic Republic’, with all its properties. He can’t be the leader of reforms or the opposition leader.”The earth may be moving under the mullah’s feet in Iran, but the clerics still hold ultimate power. But Rohani’s win is more than that; it is a triumph. The mullahs may feel they will ignore the people’s will at their peril.
####2013 June 15####Rohani ahead in Iranian presidential poll####RelatedWith more than half of the votes counted in Iran’s presidential election the more moderate of the six candidates, Hassan Rohani, is in the lead.The latest figures give Iran’s former lead nuclear negotiator over fourteen million votes, or just under 51% of the total, a huge lead over the second-placed candidate Mohammed Baqer Qalibaf, the two-times elected Mayor of Tehran, who for the moment has just under 16% of the vote, 10 million fewer than Rohani.Around 50 million votes are up for grabs, so these are early days yet in the count, with most collated results so far in from urban areas.Estimated turnout is between 70 and 80%.Iran’s current lead nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili is trailing in fourth place with just over 11%. If a candidate wins over 50% of the vote no second round is needed, forestalling the need for a second-round run-off between the two leading candidates in a week’s time.While few expect the eventual winner to take Iran in any radically different direction, it is believed Rohani would take a less confrontational foreign policy line than outgoing president Mahmoud Amadinejad.A number of polling stations stayed open for five extra hours due to the numbers of electors queuing outside.
####2013 June 15####Rohani triumphs in Iranian presidential election####RelatedIt is a stunning electoral victory by any measure; the most moderate of the six candidates in Iran’s presidential election, Hassan Rohani has not just won, he has obliterated his challengers.He finished with more than 18.5 million votes, some 12 million more than his nearest challenger, the Mayor of Tehran, who could only muster 16.5% of the vote to Rohani’s just-under 51%.The margin of victory means there will be no potentially divisive second round, and will have been noted by Iran’s clerical elite as a massive expression of the people’s desire for change.It puts to an end the Ahmedinejad era. The outgoing president’s eight years in power were notable for steadily deteriorating relations with the West, global isolation, and economic stagnation.While Ahmedinejad became a hero to those in the Arab world who wanted the toughest of lines taken against America and Israel, it seems the Iranians are fed up with fighting the Arab world’s battles and would like something more like normal foreign relations.Any doubts about the significance of this election are confounded by the high turnout, estimated at over 72%. People were hungry to vote, and hungry for a new direction.
####2013 June 15####Window of opportunity for West in Iran says analyst####RelatedHassan Rohani, the relatively moderate candidate in the Iranian presidential elections who was supported by reformists, has won. It was a poll that saw Iranians flocking to vote.We talked to Ahmad Salamatian, an Iranian Affairs analyst, about the factors leading to this victory and its impact.Maria Sarsalari, euronews:“Mr. Salamatian, taking into account the pessimism and loss of confidence created after the 2009 election, and the rumours of an vote orchestrated by the government, is this an all-too predictable result?Ahmad Salamatian:“Until three or four days before voting day, strict security prevailed. Security was so heavy that it did not allow political expression. During the candidates’ television debates and particularly in the second debate the political process somehow leaked through the TV studio and escaped the security blanket. Iranian society is so thirsty for and enthusiastic about political interaction that the spirit of political reaction was able to break through and finally prevail. I can now say that the players on Iran’ political scene, both those who are ruling as well as reformists and moderates and the main body of the electorate are all obliged to adopt politics, as opposed to prioritising security. Politics means interaction and seeking understanding. In the current critical circumstances in Iran, Iranian society needs this understanding and the Iranian middle class feels this need acutely. In line with this, leaders of the reformist movement such as Mr. Khatami and Mr. Rafsanjani have acted very well. I can tell you at this stage that the regime shows that it is becoming more realistic about its own situation and towards international issues. Therefore, unlike 2009, I do not think the regime will reject the majority voters’ desire for mutual understanding.”euronews:“At the moment we have a conservative parliament in power. Will it not be difficult for Mr. Rohani to work with it?”Ahmad Salamatian:“In an atmosphere of political interaction, even that kind of Majlis will have no option but to listen to the public demand, a demand which is being spelled out so powerfully. I do not think that the Majlis will create many problems for the winner of this election and, even so, it is unlikely that the winner would want to defy other institutions right at the beginning of his term.”euronews:For years Mr. Rohani was Iran’s lead nuclear negotiator. In the electoral debates he criticised his conservative rival Saeed Jalili. What change in the relationship with the West can we expect from Mr. Rohani?Ahmad Salamatian:“This sends a powerful message about a kind of consensus in Iran. The international negotiators, who were always looking for someone on the Iranian side capable of engaging in true dialogue and interaction, should now get this message from Iran. My hope is that the International community in general, and the United States and Europe in particular, understand that this is a very suitable chance for interaction with Iran with the aim of solving the nuclear issue. I also hope that those ruling in Iran will be realistic and refrain from using the nuclear issue as a hostage at home to lock-up domestic politics. If the international community aims at using Iran’s position to stabilize this turbulent Middle East region, a solution that is backed by the majority of the Iranian people, then this will certainly work and the Iranian middle class will also be the best geopolitical ally of the outside world.”
####2013 June 16####Iranians celebrate Rohani’s win, ‘a victory for moderation’####RelatedIn Tehran, thousands of jubilant Iranians hit the streets to celebrate their presidential election result. It was described as ‘a victory for moderation’ by the new President Hassan Rohani.The result was a resounding triumph for cleric Rohani and his reform-minded supporters and an emphatic defeat of Iran’s conservative hardliners.With six candidates in the running, Rohani won more than 50 percent of the vote.One Tehran resident said he believed that the support of former Presidents Rafsanjani and Khatami, as well as the withdrawal of reformist Aref from the race, contributed to Rouhani’s decisive victory.Rohani takes the helm of an economy battered by international sanctions, the result of Iran’s bitter dispute with the West over its nuclear programme.On foreign policy, Rohani has already struck a very different tone to that of outgoing president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Rohani spoke of a new chance “in the international arena” for “those who truly respect democracy and cooperation”.Matters of national security are the domain of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei so are outside the hands of the president.
####2013 June 16####Rohani calls for support in first TV address####RelatedA mix of euphoria and relief filled the Tehran air. The long wait was over for Iranians at home and abroad. A moderate cleric had been elected.When the cheers die down Hassan Rohani’s victory will be followed by the challenge of repairing the damage done by eight years of growing mistrust between Tehran and the West and to restore a battered economy. Daunting tasks for which he called on the people’s help in his first TV address.“I’m proud that the great people of Iran, the honourable people, thought that I deserve this. They trusted me so that I can begin on the path to serve the country, to enhance people’s lives and welfare, and preserve national pride and national interests. I deeply feel that I need your assistance along this path. I need you to be there. I need your cooperation,” he said.But what of support from the West? The UK urged Rohani to “set Iran on a different course for the future”. The US talked of engaging directly with Iran and addressing the international community’s concerns about Iran’s nuclear programme. Voters have their own hopes as one woman explained“I’m very grateful that Rohani won the election and that he formed an alliance with Aref. This has absolutely won the votes of the reformists. I hope he can keep his promises, his slogan of restoring wisdom and hope in this country,” she said.Acclaim has not been universal for Rohani. It’s reported Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told his cabinet “The international community must not give in to wishful thinking or temptation and loosen the pressure on Iran for it to stop its nuclear programme.”
####2013 June 17####Iran’s Rohani promises ‘transparency’ but no end to nuclear programme####RelatedIran’s president-elect Hassan Rohani has said his country is ready to be more transparent over its nuclear programme, but it is not prepared to suspend uranium enrichment.He was giving his first news conference since winning Friday’s presidential election, and said a new opportunity had been created for friendly relations between the Islamic Republic and the outside world.“The government of wisdom and hope, as promised, will pursue national goals with a moderate policy designed to save the country’s economy and revive ethical considerations and constructive interaction with the world,” he said.The words “moderate” and “constructive” may encourage those anxious to see Iran adopt a more conciliatory approach compared to that under Rohani’s predecessor. The hardline stance of President Ahmadinejad has been criticised as counter-productive at home, where Western sanctions have been biting hard.The EU’s foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton has said she will continue urging Iran to build confidence in the nature of a nuclear programme, following Rohani’s election.Western powers suspect Tehran wants to build an atomic bomb. Iran insists it is only interested in developing nuclear energy.
####2013 June 17####Political protest brings sudden end to Rohani’s first press conference####RelatedHassan Rohani’s first press conference ended abruptly when a man in the audience sprang up and shouted a slogan in support of a jailed politician.Mirhossein Mousavi has been held under house arrest since 2011 and when questioned about his fate, Rohani did not answer and shortly afterwards left the stage as the protester was bundled away by security guards.
####2013 June 18####Iran: Hassan Rohani, the pragmatic president####RelatedLawyer, cleric, academic. Iran’s new president Hassan Rohani was playing the role of the diplomat as he met his predecessor Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in Tehran on Tuesday.The pair discussed the economic and political problems the country faces, especially after years of sanctions imposed by the West over Iran’s nuclear stance.“The next government aims to make use of experiences of all past governments, and God willing, ease the problems that people are facing,” declared Rohani.One test of Rohani’s moderate credentials will be whether Mirhossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karoubi are released. Both were placed under house arrest following protests after the disputed elections in 2009. A press conference was cut short on Monday after pro-Mousavi slogans were shouted across the room.Putting on his old nuclear negotiator cap, he earlier pledged transparency over the country’s nuclear programme, but noted that any suspension of uranium enrichment was out of the question.Euronews spoke with Hossein Mousavian, a former Iranian diplomat who worked alongside Rohani on the nuclear issue.Nima Ghadakpour, euronews: “You worked with Rohani for years. As president, do you think he’ll deliver on the hopes he has raised among his supporters?”Hossein Mousavian: “I am certain the power of the presidency, which is, constitutionally, the second-highest in the country, will enable him to do that. If we listen to the policy he committed to during the presidential campaigning, and based on what I know from having worked with him for 30 years, I can tell you that he has the capacity to resolve a major part of the internal and international problems with which Iran is confronted today.”euronews: “On foreign policy: Barack Obama voiced optimism when Rohani was elected. Do you believe Rohani will be able to open up and normalise relations with the United States?”Mousavian: “That is not something that Rohani can do on his own. At least half of the responsibility lies with the US, and I believe even more than that. According to Iran’s constitution, it is the Supreme Leader who takes the final decision, and he showed his intentions clearly on this subject a few months ago. He said that although he was not very optimistic, if the government wanted to open negotiations with Washington, he wouldn’t stop it.”euronews: “In your opinion, did the Supreme Leader send the international community a message through this election?”Mousavian: “The leader’s policy towards the US hasn’t changed since the presidencies of Rafsanjani, Khatami and even Ahmadinejad. The leader’s policy is first based on mutual respect, and against interference in internal affairs. If these conditions are met, the leader is ready to talk. That’s been his policy since he rose to power.”euronews: “On Syria: Rohani said yesterday at his press conference that the only way to solve that crisis is through the will of the people. At the same time, Jack Straw, the British former foreign minister, said that Rohani’s election raised new hope for that region. What do you think?”Mousavian: “The key to the Syrian crisis, as Rohani says, is the will of the Syrian people. That principle could be a primary principle both for the international community to follow and for regional powers in resolving the Syrian problem.”euronews: “But how can the will of the people prevail in Syria?”Mousavian: “I say that, in order for it to triumph, as Rohani said, an international conference must be organised, with the 5+1 powers in the UN Security Council and regional powers, who would decide on the putting into place of free elections, under United Nations monitoring, so that the Syrian people decide on the future of their country. That is the best, most pragmatic solution in solving the Syrian problem.”
####2013 June 19####As seen in Iran: Iranians celebrate the election of Hassan Rouhani####RelatedIranians poured onto the streets to celebrate the election of Hassan Rouhani on 15 June. Some of them filmed the celebrations and sent their images to euronews.Here are their videos.A road in Tehran.In Vali Asr Square, Tehran.In Ahvaz.Three days later, the qualification of the Iranian national football team for the 2014 World Cup gave cause for fresh celebrations, such as these in the streets of Tehran.
####2013 July 26####Iran under a new president####In this edition of U talk, John from Bristol, UK writes to ask: “As the new president of Iran, Hassan Rouhani, prepares to take office how do you see relations developing between the Islamic Republic, Europe, and the wider international community?”John’s question is answered by Dr. Pascal Boniface, founding Director of the Institute for International and Strategic Relations (IRIS).“Most importantly, we’re expecting an improvement in relations with the western world. Relations have been very tense, with the US on one side and Europe on the other. Europe was even more critical about Iranian government actions.“Iraninan voters chose the best of a bad bunch. The choice was limited because candidates needed approval from the supreme leader. Iranian voters chose the one most open to political reform, however the results remain to be seen. The new Iranian president appears willing to open up to the West.“For now, each partner has its own major issue: for Iran, it’s about lifting international sanctions, ending the embargo and easing trade barriers. For Europe, it’s the Iranian nuclear issue.“So, let’s hope that Europeans, Iranians and Americans will seize the opportunity to negotiate a solution.”If you would like to ask a question, click on the participate button below or visit our social media pages.ParticipateJavaScript is required in order to view this article’s accompanying video
####2013 August 03####Rouhani has the task of fixing Iran’s economy####RelatedDr. Kamran Dadkhah is an economist and university lecturer in Boston. Can the new government in Iran control the point to point inflation rate of 42 percent and boost the value of Iran’s currency?Kamran Dadkhah: Yes, of course, it is not easy but Rouhani has assets that, if utilised and well explained to people; then he can control inflation within an acceptable period of time, within a year or two. This has been done in other countries such as post World War I Germany and in the United States during the 1980s.Ali Kheradpir, euronews: You mentioned that Rouhani has assets, could you explain further?Kamran Dadkhah: First of all, the Americans and Europeans are apparently optimistic that they can solve the existing problems through him and if these issues are resolved and the sanctions are lifted; it will be very good for Iran as well as for his government. Secondly, the (Iranian) people are optimistic, too. If he (Rouhani) can use this optimism and encourage work, trade and investment by showing that the country is safe; these two factors will help him very much.euronews: Rouhani’s economic views lean towards competition. Regarding the involvement of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) in economic affairs, how can the country exit the current situation. Will a technocrat government face a challenge with the IRGC?Kamran Dadkhah: That will certainly be the case. Not only with the Revolutionary Guards, which is the most important element, but also with others who see their interests at stake. Nevertheless, this is an economic battle and it is not an easy job. Much later, he cannot say “they did not let me do my job” like Ahmadinejad and some others have said. No – there will be resistance but if he has the substance and the programme, he must go ahead and do it; otherwise, nothing will be done.”euronews: Do you think that the Iranian president has the necessary authorities working towards the lifting of sanctions?Kamran Dadkhah: Probably not but if he can keep the people behind him and communicate with them about the issue; also if he could communicate with the IRGC and other institutions and tell them that if he loses, everybody will lose; then there will be possibility of a reaching solution. As I said, this is like a battle. If it were an easy job and anybody could do it; then there would have been no need for a presidential election.
####2013 August 03####Iran prepares to officially swear in new president####RelatedAfter eight years in office, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has handed over the presidential reigns to his successor Hassan Rouhani, who will be officially sworn in on Sunday.Ahmadinejad’s hardline policies will be remembered for raising tensions between the Islamic Republic and Western powers.Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has formally endorsed Rouhani.The moderate cleric faces enormous challenges – including economic problems and political divisions. He has pledged to try and get Western sanctions over the country’s suspect nuclear programme lifted.In the capital Tehran, people are hoping Rouhani will bring about change.“Our demand is for more social freedoms, especially for women,” said one resident.Another added: “As a citizen, my demand from Rouhani is to ensure economic security, to create jobs and pave the way for more foreign investment in Iran.”Rouhani won a landslide victory in June’s presidential elections. He will take the oath of office in parliament on Sunday and is expected to unveil his proposed cabinet shortly after.
####2013 August 03####Hasan Rouhani endorsed as Iran president####RelatedThe new president of Iran, Hassan Rohani, has been sworn in at a religious ceremony in Tehran.The cleric was handed power by the country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.Seen as a moderate, expectations are high both in Iran and abroad that he will be a reforming president. However he still has to please hardliners within the country.Rohani is a former nuclear negotiator and the US will be hoping it can talk to him on the issue of nuclear weapons. Earlier this week, Washington held off backing tough new sanctions on Iran, seen by many as offering an olive branch.The 64 year old was the surprise winner of elections in June. He now begins a four year term as Iran’s president.
####2013 August 03####New Iranian president set to bring changes to relationship with West####RelatedThe election of Iran’s new president, Hassan Rohani, in June came a surprise to many. The 64 year old is known for his moderate views and openness for dialogue with the West.The youth of the Islamic Republic of Iran have celebrated his election. They expect the new president to give the economy a boost, improve the value of the national currency, modernise the rail system, reduce the number of unemployed while at the same time give Iranians more civil liberties.Hassan Rohani received the backing of former Iranian presidents Akbar Hachemi Rafsandjani and Mohammed Kahtami. They asked voters to support the newly elected president.Since before the revolution, Rohani was a fervent supporter of the founder of the Islamic Republic, Ayatollah Khomeini, and served as a deputy in the Iranian parliament from 1980 until 2000. Rohani has a law doctorate from the University of Glasgow. He also held the role of Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council, which brought him to negotiating table over Iran’s nuclear programme. He accepted the suspension of uranium enrichment and the application of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons., which permitted the surprise inspections of Iranian nuclear installations.Rohani’s openness could signal a change in the relationship Iran has with the West following the eight strained years of the Ahmadinejad presidency.Despite the expected changes in Iran, the new president is limited because the Islamic Republic’s constitution states that strategic issues such as the country’s nuclear policies are controlled by the Supreme Leader. However, he has a close relationship with Ali Khamenei.
####2013 August 04####Iran’s new president prepares to take over from Ahmadinejad####RelatedThe new president of Iran, Hassan Rouhani, will take an oath of office in parliament on Sunday afternoon, formally replacing outgoing president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.The moderate cleric, who won a landslide victory on June 14, has pledged to follow a “path of moderation” and promised greater openness over the country’s nuclear programme.Euronews correspondent in Tehran, Olaf Bruns, says Rohani will be feeling the pressure to get the west to ease sanctions: “many Iranians are looking forward to a new president who will have a less confrontational attitude than his predecessor Mahmoud Ahmadinejad because they know that without better ties with the West there will hardly be any easing of sanctions. And without an easing of sanctions it will be hard for the country’s economy to recover.”For the first time, Iran invited foreign heads of state to the weekend’s ceremonies. Every country apart from the US and Israel was invited.A dozen presidents including Pakistan’s Zadari have attended, as well as guest of honour former EU diplomat, Javier Solana,Rohani is expected to unveil his cabinet shortly after the parliamentary ceremony..
####2013 August 04####Israel’s Netanyahu says Iranian regime is ‘no different’####RelatedOn the day Iran’s new president takes office, Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has said he believes there is no difference between the old and new regimes.Netanyahu said: “Iran’s president said the day before yesterday that Israel is a wound on Islam’s body. The president in Iran has changed but the intention of the regime there has not. It has remained the same. Iran’s intention is to develop nuclear capability and nuclear arms and its aim is to destroy the state of Israel. This represents a danger not only to us and to the Middle East, but to the entire world and we are all committed to prevent this.”However, after the new Iranian president, Hassan Rohani, made his speech on Friday it emerged that he had been mis-translated. In his speech, Rohani had talked about an unspecified “wound on Islam” but not mentioned Israel.The speech was made on Iran’s national Quds Day, or Jerusalem Day, with rallies in support of the Palestinian cause.Rohani was voted in in June and is a moderate cleric. It is hoped by those inside and outside Iran that he will be able to improve relations with the international community.
####2013 August 04####New Iranian president takes oath of office####RelatedThe seventh president of Iran, Hassan Rohani, has taken his oath of office at an official ceremony at the parliament in Tehran.On Saturday, he received the endorsement of the Supreme Leader of the country, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.Breaking with tradition in the Islamic Republic of Iran, the newly inaugurated president invited international guests for the ceremony. The former EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and the current UN Deputy Secretary-General Jan Kubish have attended.The election of Iran’s new president in June came as a surprise to many. The 64 year old is known for his moderate views and openness for dialogue with the West, which he outlined in his inaugural speech.It is hoped that his four year term will bring a change to relations between Iran and the international community.
####2013 August 04####New president of Iran, Hassan Rohani, takes oath of office####RelatedThe newly elected seventh president of Iran, Hassan Rohani, has taken his oath of office at a official ceremony at the Iranian parliament in Tehran.On Saturday, he received the endorsement of the Supreme Leader of the country, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.The election of Iran’s new president in June came as a surprise to many. The 64 year old is known for his moderate views and openness for dialogue with the West, which he outlined in his inaugural speech.Rohani said: “I want to end tensions, create mutual confidence and constructive interaction in order to determine our future path. I want to stress that Iran has never wanted to be at war with the world. We will focus all our efforts on keeping those who want war and trigger it on a tight reign.”Breaking with tradition in Iran, Rohani invited foreign dignitaries to the ceremony. In his speech he also asked for an end to sanctions and respect from the international community.Euronews correspondent Olaf Burns attended the ceremony in Tehran and explained: “It is in the same parliament where Rohani took his oath of office where he will encounter obstacles. The parliament was elected just one year ago and two thirds of the MPs are conservatives.”
####2013 August 05####Washington weighs up Iran’s new President Rohani####RelatedA new president and a new era – that is what Washington is wondering after Iran’s Hassan Rohani was sworn in and quickly indicated a readiness for dialogue.The White House has responded saying it is willing to work with Rohani’s government, urging him to end the dispute over Tehran’s nuclear programme.In his inaugural speech Rohani said:“If you seek a suitable answer, speak to Iran through the language of respect, not through the language of sanctions.”While Rohani made no mention of the Iran’s nuclear programme he did reach out to groups outside the country with talk of building mutual trust. At the same time he promised Iranians a government of moderation.Ordinary Iranians appeared to expect a lot from their new president.“I hope, in the next four years, we no longer see the faults and the mental and economic pressure on the country that we have experienced in the past few years,” said one Tehran resident.Another was more concerned about Iran’s youth: “They have problems. The problems of unemployment and the economy have to be solved, so that they can live a more comfortable life. Inflation also has to be sorted out.”Rohani’s first task was to nominate a cabinet for parliamentary approval that included some moderates in key positions.Also read
####2013 August 06####Backing for President Rohani’s call for talks on nuclear issue####RelatedIran’s President Hassan Rohani has said he wants to solve his country’s disputed nuclear issue. He spoke of his intentions when answering questions from representatives of the world media.He said the dispute must be addressed by dialogue and not ultimatums, a stance that has been backed by Russia. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said: “It’s critical to support the constructive approach of the Iranian leadership.”The 64-year-old Iranian cleric made clear his determination to preserve his country’s rights.“I, as president of the Islamic Republic of Iran, announce that the Islamic Republic has a serious determination to solve this issue – the nuclear issue – while maintaining the rights of the Iranian people and, at the same time we take into consideration that the worries of the other side have to be eliminated,” he told the journalists.The president then turned his attention to the US saying he believed Washington did not have a thorough understanding of what was happening in Iran and was listening to outside sources.“Unfortunately, in the US, there is a pressure group, which is a war-seeking group, and it is opposed to constructive dialogue and seeks to protect the interests of a foreign country and takes orders from it in the US,” Rohani told reporters.
####2013 August 16####Iran parliament approves Rohani’s top cabinet nominees####RelatedIran’s parliament has approved president Hassan Rohani’s top nominees for cabinet posts. Politicians debated the 18 hopefuls over four days eventually rejecting three minor ministers in a vote held on Thursday. They have three months to vote again on the ministers for sport, education and science.The three big names are US educated Mohammad Zarif, who will be the Foreign Minister and former oil minister Bijan Zanganeh who will return to the post. Both ministers will be seeking to build bridges with the West. International sanctions over Iran’s nuclear programme has seen oil exports halved since 2011.The choice of former foreign minister under president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Ali Akbar Salehi to head the Atomic Energy Agency on Friday also appears to be a nod to pragmatism according to analysts.Western states fear Iran’s uranium enrichment is an attempt not to fuel nuclear power stations but to acquire weapons’ grade material. Nuclear talks between the western powers and Iran have consistently failed in the past.
####June 29th, 2013####Ahmadinejad’s Mysterious Silence On The Rejectection Of His Preferred Candidate####President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad talks with Rahim Mashaee during a meeting of Cabinet. (Photo Credit: Dolat.ir) Almost 40 days have passed since President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s close companion, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, was disqualified for candidacy in presidential election and the president’s silence so far has surprised many. His controversial and exaggerating support for Mashaei, especially in the last six months prior to the election was to an extent which made many expect an eruptive reaction from him. Mashaei is Ahmadinejad’s longtime close friend whose actions, as many critics say, decreased the president’s popularity. He has had overstatements and exorbitant talks about sacred principals of Islam and Shiism and is also charged with political and economical corruption, but Ahmadinejad has insisted many times that “I am Mashaei, and Mashaei is me”. Upon his disqualification, the president said he would pursuit the case to the last minute via the leader and hoped the issue would be solved. “The president met the leader tree times and requested for his special order [on the issue] but the leader did not accept his requests,” said Haj Sadeghi, the deputy of the representative of the Leader Ayatollah Khamenei in Iran’s Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC). It is not clear if Ahmadinejad did other things too but in a gathering held on June 24, when he spoke to his supporters he said sarcastically, “They omitted a number of the pure and the believer and many were sad and contacted me regularly,” He did not mention any names but political observers say he was referring to disqualification of Mashaei.         The president’s supporters and even many of his critics expected the president to attack the main organizations of the system, especially the Guardian Council, but unbelievably he did nothing and pretended to obey the law. Ahmadinejad’s “mere” silence was so strange that led political observers make two analyses. A small group of observers who believe in the first analysis still are waiting for Ahmadinejad’s political attack. They believe the president is adding to his indirect protest with suspending his provincial trips and doing nothing for the economy. These analysts say the president is angry about the big defeat of his men in the presidential and city council elections and the cases against him in the judiciary and has a special plan to punish his critics even if only one day remains from his administration. But the second group of analysts rejects the first analysis and makes a totally different argument in response to it. They say during recent years, Dr. Ahmadinejad and his friends have reached to this conclusion that standing against original and principal organizations of the Islamic Republic and creating tensions in the country would lead to a decline in their popular votes and omission from the country’s political system. According to them, for several reasons it is not expected from Ahmadinejad to make any upheaval in the remaining days of his presidency: Considering the two orders by the leader, one regarding the vice presidency of Mashaei and the other regarding the ministry of information, Ahmadinejad thought he could make the system back off but his prediction turned wrong. He also has seen that even during the 2009 protests and riots the system did not back off from its position and did not nullify the votes so he would not make the same mistake over Mashaei’s disqualification. Inability to control economic problems that led to increased financial pressure against the people, paying little attention to the sacred, and disagreeing with some rules and leader’s advices weaken his social standing. The president cannot make tension in the society when he does not have popular support. The president does not want to make himself a center of hatred forever with making a not very useful tension in the country He wants to remain as a peaceful and oppressed figure in the mind of the people, leaving good memories behind himself and giving himself the chance of returning to top positions again. He does not want to compensate the chance of getting away from the charges against him and his friends in several economic and political suits for a political upheaval which does not have a clear result. A political attack might destroy the president’s critics but its costs would be more than its benefits and it would be more like a suicidal action and not a contemplated action. If Ahmadinejad wanted to create tension he would do it before the election but his silence then showed he was not willing to do so. Based on these reasons the second analysis seems to be closer to reality and thus we should not expect more tensions and upheavals from the president. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Jalili: Amputee Candidate Becoming Frontrunner in Presidential Race Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Latest on Iran Election: 7-8 Candidate Will Be Qualified; MPs Urged Rejection of Rafsanjani Iran’s Elections: Vote Yes or No, Just Be Sure To Vote Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, featured, Guardian Council, Haj Sadeghi, Iran Elections, IRGC, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Supreme Leader
####April 29th, 2013####Ahmadinejad’s Plans for the Presidential Election####President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad talks with Rahim Mashaee during a meeting of Cabinet. (Photo Credit: Dolat.ir) Iran’s coming Election is facing a new political controversy, not from the opposition or the “Reformists”, but from a party within the current Iranian Administration. The Government’s critics believe that Esfandiar Rahim Mashaee who is the head of a party, which they label as “Deviant Current”. Mashaee who was the Chief of Staff in Ahmadinejad’s administration, left the office as Ahmadinejad suggested and became the head of the Non Aligned Movement Secretariat.  Even though Mashaee hasn’t actually declared his candidacy, political activists suggest that his shared programs with the President are paving the way for his candidacy. Senior government officials don’t deny the relationship between Mashaee’s programs and the Presidential Elections. Ahmadinejad, who cannot run for presidency because he was president for two consecutive terms, began a speaking tour around Iran in the beginning of the new Iranian year and Mashaee was present at each step. In visits to Semnan and Isfahan provinces, Ahmadinejad symbolically offered the Islamic Republic’s flag to Mashaee and then gave the opportunity for Mashaee to speak out, and this caused discontent among some members of Iran’s Majlis, political activists and even high ranking military officials. But the main objection from the “Principalists” and patriots towards those around the President are targeted at Mashaee and his cronies in 10th administration. He also made controversial statements about “the end of the Islamic Era”. “The Islamic Era is over; we began the revolution in 1979 to promote our ideas to other countries, but I should say that the Islamic Era is over; this doesn’t mean that clinging to Islamic ideas will vanish, but the Era is over. Like the Era of horse riding is over, but we still have horses and horse riding and the Era of cars will come to an end, but there will still be cars and driving.” He said. Mashaee was accused in 2011 to be part of a big banking embezzlement. One of the main suspects confessed to his hidden meeting with Mashaee. Thus far neither Mashaee, nor the administration has commented on the matter. Government critics believe that the former Chief of Staff has influences above the law; He has influenced the acceptance of many important government recruits and also resignations and he doesn’t allow involvement of elites who are mostly oppose to his ideas, in the administration. Even though Mashaee denied all the accusations. Mashaee paying respect to Ayatollah Khamenei during a meeting of Cabinet with the Supreme Leader. (Photo Credit: Khamenei.ir) The Current administration is also accused of squandering pubic funds on Election campaigns, spending money on cultural programs (for the purpose of promoting the administration) without reason. But they have denied all of the accusations without giving any defense.  The “Principalists” and other government critics initially thought of Mashaee as a rogue member of the administration. They began advising Ahmadinejad to put Mashaee aside, but after Ahmadinejad endless support of Mashaee, they implied that they are both on the same path and can’t be separated. Consistent praising of Mashaee by Ahmadinejad confirmed the thought. Ahmadinejad knew unfavorable judgments toward Mashaee will spark new criticisms and Critics saw this as arrogance.  Judging by these facts Mashaee awaits an unknown faith. Because the conventional wisdom is that Mashaee will be denied entrance to the Presidential race by the Guardian Council. Recent talks by the head of the Guardian Council supports this belief. Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati was asked about how this Council handles those of the “deviant order” who want to enter the Presidential race. “We act according to the law.” Jannati answered. This is perhaps why there have been speculations about other possible candidates in case Mashaee gets rejected. Gholam Hussein Elham, spokesperson of the current administration, Ali Nikzad Minister of Roads and Municipality, Ali Akbar Salehi the Foreign Minister and Rouhollah Kermani the former Vice President are among the list of possible candidates. There are other possible candidates other than those mentioned, they are not socially recognized and we chose not to elaborate on them. *Abdullah Almasi is the Editor in Chief of Iranian Jahannews.com news website. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Government Spokesman Complicates Ahmadinejad’s Election Plan Mashaee Will Run For President Subsidies Are A Hot Election Issue In Iran Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Tags: Ahmad Jannati, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, featured, Guardian Council, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Majlis, Mashaee, Mashaei, Principalists
####May 15th, 2013####Ayatollah Khamenei: Iran’s Presidential Election Has Become an International Issue####Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei said on Wednesday that “the upcoming presidential election in the country has become a major international issue.” “All Think Tanks around the world are monitoring this prominent event and they have specific plans and objectives regarding the Iran election,” he said during a visit with families of Iran-Iraq war martyrs. Regarding multitude number of presidential candidates he said, “God willing, the Guardian Council will announce those who are qualified and everyone should be obeying the law. Violating the law will cause problem.” The vote on June 14 will be the first presidential election since 2009 when Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, two defeated candidates refused to use legal procedures to pursue their complaints regarding election results. After Mahmoud Ahmadinejad won the 2009 election, the supporters of his rivals started street protest due to claims of fraud in the election. Later the street protests turned to riots. “For the peace and unity of the country, the law is a good measure,” said Ayatollah Khamenei. On how people should choose their next president he added, “People should pay attention to the slogans candidates use to attract votes, some are chanting slogans which are beyond the authorities of a president,” he said. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Leader: Only Qualified Candidates Can Enter the 2013 Presidential Race Iran’s Elections: Vote Yes or No, Just Be Sure To Vote Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Iran’s Ex-FM says Supreme Leader had Accepted a Plan to Solve the Nuclear Issue Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, featured, headline, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Supreme Leader
####May 21st, 2013####Breaking: Iran’s Interior Ministry Announced List of Qualified Presidential Candidates####Iran’s interior ministry announced the list of qualified candidates of presidential election. Saeed Jalili, Gholam-Ali Hadad Adel, Mohsen Rezaei, Hasan Rowhani, Mohammad-Reza Aref, Mohammad Gharazi, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf and Ali Akbar Velayati vetted by the Guardian Council and are official candidates for upcoming presidential election. While Earlier today, Hasanali Nouri, head of the election desk of the interior ministry said in an interview with Iranian Nasim news agency that the list of qualified candidates will be announced on Wednesday, the interior ministry suddenly issued a statement on Thursday night and announced the list. Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei are not in the list of qualified candidates. “I didn’t wanted to register for candidacy till last moments, I entered the race to serve the country and will do my best for the development of Iran and revolution till I’m alive,” Hashemi Rafsanjani, a former two-term president said in a meeting with a group of lawyers and university professors today. Mashaei, the controversial aide of the president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad also said to journalists today that he believe that he can be qualified and if the Guardian Council deny him, he will appeal in a legal procedure. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Disqualified Candidates Cannot Appeal Decision Of The Guardian Council Latest on Iran Election: 7-8 Candidate Will Be Qualified; MPs Urged Rejection of Rafsanjani Everything About Mohammad Gharazi, Unknown Qualified Presidential Candidate What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Mohsen Rezaei, Saeed Jalili
####April 25th, 2013####Did Mahmoud Ahmadinejad Steal the 2009 Iran Election?####Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 Iran’s President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad(left), talks with Mir Hossein Mousavi ( right), before their TV debate on June 3, 2009. (Photo Credit: IRIB) Charges that the Iranian government brutally mistreated protesters after the 2009 presidential election must be taken very seriously. A protester’s human rights should not depend on the merits of his position, just as our respect for a soldier should not depend on the merits of the war he is sent to fight. The question considered here, however, is not whether the government mistreated those who protested the election result, nor whether Iran’s government ought to be run by different people with different policies. Nor is the question whether more candidates ought to have been declared eligible to run – a complaint not made by Mir-Hossein Mousavi until after the election. Obviously he made the list, and the exclusion of other candidates probably improved his chances. The question here is simply whether Mahmoud Ahmadinejad won the election, fair and square. Here is the officially reported outcome: Iran Presidential Election – June 12, 2009 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad – 24,525,491 (62.6%) Mir-Hossein Mousavi – 13,258,464 (33.8%) Mohsen Rezaei – 656,150 (1.7%) Mehdi Karroubi – 330,183 (0.8%) Valid votes – 38,770,288 (98.9%) Blank or invalid ballots – 421,005 (1.1%) Total votes – 39,191,293 (100.0%) Were these figures correct? They were reported by Iran’s Interior Ministry, an institution that has been vilified and ridiculed in the Western press and in which most Iranians themselves do not express a great deal of confidence – much as they reportedly feel about Iran’s Guardian Council, which monitors the Interior Ministry’s election-related activities. But that does not matter because we have no need to rely on the figures reported by the Interior Ministry, nor on the Guardian Council. What does matter is that these reported vote totals match the sum of local vote counts reported by the 45,692 polling stations at which Iranians voted in this election. At local polling stations all across Iran, tens of thousands of observers selected by Mir-Houssein Mousavi personally monitored the voting all day long and closely watched the vote counting after the polls closed. Not one of Mousavi’s 40,676 registered observers complained that day that he had been turned away or prevented from observing any activity at his polling station. Not one has claimed that the Interior Ministry reported a vote count for his polling station that did not match the vote count he had personally witnessed, or that he was deceived or lacked an adequate basis for approving the count. These facts – disputed loudly and often by Mousavi supporters after the election results were reported, but not by his actual election-day observers – are difficult to ignore. Few outside observers appear to understand this. This is not entirely sufficient even so, since several thousand polling stations were not observed by Mousavi representatives, and he has alleged other wrongdoing. Nonetheless, whether Ahmadinejad won Iran’s 2009 presidential election, fairly, is a question that easily can be answered. The tests proposed below are straightforward. The necessary data have long been available. The results ought to convince any fair-minded skeptic.   Analysis of Mousavi Complaints   By the end of Election Day, the three opposition candidates had filed 646 complaints with the Guardian Council, which soon claimed to have investigated them even though nearly all involved local irregularities that could have little effect on the lopsided outcome. In addition, 10% of the ballots were recounted eight days after the election, with video cameras and hundreds of opposition observers looking on. No significant discrepancy was found, and the candidate whose representatives had observed the recount (Rezai) withdrew his complaint three days later. Mousavi ignored all of this, however, having shifted his attack to sweeping allegations such as “the way the results were pre-planned,” and to a more extreme remedy: nullification of the election. Most of Mousavi’s new allegations – involving subjects such as “the role of shadow institutions” and “abuse of power“ – were phrased too generally to permit an investigation. Instead of supplying requested details, Mousavi encouraged his supporters to stage protest rallies, which led to harsh government crackdowns. A few complaints nevertheless were developed sufficiently to be assessed here.   Complaint: There Were More Votes Than Eligible Voters In Some Areas Early reports indicated that the votes in two of Iran’s thirty provinces slightly exceeded the number of eligible voters, which Mousavi cited as evidence of fraud. Similar “excess voting” had occurred in earlier high-turnout elections, such as the 1997 election won by the reform candidate, Mohammad Khatami. Voters do not register in Iran, though few Western observers appear to have known this. In a presidential election, any Iranian age 18 or over may vote at any polling station in Iran – even outside Iran: hundreds of thousands of traveling and expatriate Iranians voted in the 2009 election (overwhelmingly for Mousavi, as it happened) at polling stations set up in 95 countries outside Iran. Because no voter registration records exist, measuring turnout depends considerably on how one counts eligible voters (the denominator of the voter-turnout fraction) in the area measured. The less accurate the count of eligible voters, the more likely that “excess voting” will be found. Some independent calculations of 2009 voter turnout were based on 2006 census figures; others used residential data supplied by an independent Iranian news agency. The Interior Ministry said its own turnout calculations were based on birth certificate registries, while other government agencies used voting data from the 2005 presidential election. Mousavi did not disclose what data he had used. The Guardian Council claimed that all such measures had flaws, and that only one test of voter turnout was meaningful in a presidential election: Nationwide, did the votes exceed the eligible voters? Although the 2009 turnout was the highest ever for an election (85%), it was well under 100% and far short of the 98% turnout for the 1979 referendum held to ratify the creation of the Islamic Republic. The measure of voter turnout also depends on the size of the measured area. “Excess voting” appears far more frequently when smaller areas are measured. An influx of students, soldiers, vacationers or commuters into a small city, for example, will affect turnout figures much more for the city than for its province. Although the American Enterprise Institute later concluded that no province-wide “excess voting” had occurred after all, Iran’s Interior Minister announced that voter turnout had exceeded 100% in 48 small cities. The proportion of “excess votes” had been extremely high in some areas. For the affluent north Tehran suburb of Shemiran (the most pro-Mousavi area in all of Iran), the Interior Minister reported that the number of votes was 13 times the number of eligible voters – up from 8 times in 2005. In short, “excess voting” has long been common in Iran. It occurred more often in the 2009 election because voter turnout was higher than ever. It does not mean that fraud occurred. Nor, of course, does “excess voting” exclude the possibility of fraud. It is not easy in Iran, however, to stuff ballot boxes or vote in more than one place. Responsibility for ensuring fair elections is entrusted to Iran’s Guardian Council, which monitors the election-related activities carried out by the Interior Ministry. Whether or not one respects either institution, a candidate may post an observer at every polling station to monitor compliance with elaborate procedures designed to ensure that elections are fair. Each voter is required on election day to present an identification card, called a “shenasnameh,” which bears the voter’s photograph, thumb print and unique identifying number. The voter’s name and number are entered into a computer and recorded in writing at the polling station, and are written again on the stub of his ballot. Before voting, the voter must press a purple-ink thumb print onto his ballot stub, which is then separated from the ballot and dropped into a “stub box.” Once the ballot and stub have been separated, it is impossible to determine how the voter voted. Each voter’s identification card is stamped to prevent him from voting more than once. A unique stamp is created for each election so that poll workers can easily spot it when they check a voter’s identification card. All of this occurs in full view of candidates’ observers at each polling station where they are present. Representatives of the Guardian Council, the Interior Ministry, the local judiciary, the local police, and members of the public also serve as observers. Many polling stations are located in schools, where local teachers often act as observers. Typically, 14 or more observers monitor all election-day activities at each polling station. Observers verify that the stub box and ballot box are empty and then sealed before voting begins. They watch all day as each voter’s credentials are examined, he receives a blank ballot and presses his thumb-print onto the stub, the stub is separated from the ballot and dropped into the stub box, the voter enters a private voting booth, and finally he emerges and drops his completed ballot into the ballot box. The observers watch the ballot box closely to make sure no one except a voter drops anything into it. When the polls close, the observers watch as the “stub box” is opened and the stubs are counted, and then as the ballot box is opened and the ballots are counted to ensure there are as many ballots as stubs. If the stubs outnumber the ballots, all ballots will be counted and the discrepancy will be noted in the election report. If the ballots outnumber the stubs, the discrepancy will be noted and the number of “extra” ballots will be randomly removed from the ballot box before the vote count begins. The observers continue watching as the actual vote count takes place. Election officials examine each ballot to confirm that the voter’s choice was clearly indicated. Challenges are discussed and resolved among the election officials and observers. The final count for each candidate is written on a government form – Form 22 – which also states how many blank ballots were supplied to the polling station and how many are left. Five originals of Form 22 are signed by election officials and each observer. If a candidate’s observer disagrees with the count, he will refuse to sign (and presumably will notify the candidate). One signed original of the Form 22 is placed inside the ballot box, which is then re-sealed in the observers’ presence and handed over to a local election official to hold for a legally prescribed period of time. The ballot box is not delivered to the Interior Ministry, even if a recount occurs. Many analysts mistakenly believed that the 45,692 ballot boxes in the 2009 election were to be physically transported to Tehran for counting – under “police escort” in some accounts, sometimes with stop-overs at “local wards” and “provincial committees,” and even with multiple observers along for the ride. Some analysts even considered it evidence of fraud that Mousavi observers had been barred from riding along on these imaginary journeys to Tehran. Signed originals of the Form 22 are delivered to the Interior Ministry in Tehran and three other officials. A copy is given to each observer. The Form 22 information is also transmitted electronically on election night to district or county government offices, where candidate observers also are present. Form 22 information from numerous polling stations is summed up there to yield district-level and county-level vote totals, which are then transmitted electronically (and later physically) to the Interior Ministry in Tehran. To expedite the national vote tabulation in the 2009 election, Form 22 information was also transmitted directly from each polling station to the Interior Ministry. Observers are present when any electronic transmission occurs. The government’s explanation for “excess voting” in the 2009 presidential election was the same as in previous elections: Regardless of where he lives, any eligible Iranian voter may vote at any polling station anywhere in the world. This explanation was widely ignored or distorted in post-election press coverage. Many stories reported that the Iranian government had admitted “voting errors.” According to Dr. Ali Ansari, author of the frequently cited Chatham House Preliminary Analysis, the government had even conceded that “possibly 3 million votes were missing.” He was referring to the Interior Ministry’s announcement that “excess voting” had occurred in 48 small cities. The Ministry spokesman had explained that local turnouts exceeding 100% had been more common this time because turnout had been extremely high; this did not mean fraud had occurred. Moreover, the spokesman had added, the outcome would have been the same even if fraud had occurred – in fact, even if all 3 million votes cast in those 48 small cities had been fraudulent. The spokesman’s last remark might have struck most listeners as harmless. But some took a dimmer view – several dimmer views, in fact, linked only by the phrase “3 million votes” and a shared suspicion that Ahmadinejad’s vote-riggers were to blame for whatever foul play had occurred. Some commentators merely expressed concern about “irregularities” and “discrepancies” that “could affect 3 million votes.” Others, such as Dr. Ansari, suspected that the 3 million votes were more than just “affected” – they were “missing.” Still others reached precisely the opposite conclusion. There were not 3 million too few votes, but rather 3 million too many: “[T]he number of votes recorded in 50 cities exceeded the number of eligible voters there by 3 million.” The “too few” and “too many” interpretations of the spokesman’s remark soon were harmonized in an explanation that appealed to many Mousavi supporters: the three million votes were neither missing nor excessive – they had simply been stolen from Mousavi and given to Ahmadinejad. If the candidates’ totals were adjusted to reflect this vote theft, Ahmadinejad’s 24.5 million vote total would drop to 21.5 million, within striking distance of a run-off election (19.6 million votes, 50% of the total), and Mousavi’s total would jump to well over 16 million. In light of this shocking revelation, who could doubt that more misconduct would soon be uncovered? As if all of this were not bad enough, the Iranian government appeared to find nothing wrong with it – it was perfectly legal and “normal.” A Guardian Council spokesman had shrugged off the government’s massive fraud at another press conference, in an astonishing remark promptly reported in hundreds of stories around the world: [T]he [opposition] candidates, who claim more than 100 percent of those eligible have cast their ballot in 80 to 170 cities, are not accurate – the incident has happened in only 50 cities…   In short, 3 million votes had been stolen from Mousavi and given to Ahmadinejad, and the Iranian government’s reaction essentially had been “So what? Mousavi still falls short.” Nearly as upsetting was the government’s brazenness: holding press conferences to announce its own fraud. In fact, the Iranian government had never conceded any voting errors as a result of “excess voting,” nor that a single vote was missing – much less that Ahmadinejad had stolen 3 million votes from Mousavi. Nor was evidence of fraud reported for any of these 48 small cities. Vote-tossing and ballot-box stuffing had been rampant, according to Mousavi supporters, but apparently no one could remember who had done it, or where, or how. Many people had voted multiple times, but not a single example was cited. Not one of Mousavi’s thousands of polling-station observers stepped forward to claim that misconduct had occurred at his polling station. These claims of vote theft, ballot-box stuffing and multiple-voting appear to have had nothing at their base but fertile imagination and ignorance (or ignoring) of Iran’s “vote-anywhere” rule.   Complaint: Results Reported By Local Polling Stations Were Altered By Election Officials In Tehran   Mousavi contended that vote counts reported by polling stations were altered by the Interior Ministry in Tehran. The vote tabulation allegedly took place in locked rooms from which opposition representatives were barred. The Guardian Council denied this, and claimed that “many of [the candidates' observers] left their desks [at election headquarters] at 6 AM on [the morning after the election].” As will become clear, it is not necessary to resolve this disagreement. Most of these “locked-room” allegations were made by persons who appeared to believe, mistakenly, that the Interior Ministry counts ballots in Tehran. Ballots are counted only at the polling stations, by local election officials, with many observers looking on. The Interior Ministry’s task is only to tabulate these field counts and generate county-level, province-level and national-level election reports. Even so, a risk of fraud exists. If one assumes these Interior Ministry officials were mere cat’s paws of Ahmadinejad, as many Mousavi supporters insisted, they might have altered the field reports, producing “official” results that showed Ahmadinejad with a majority of the votes (or even 62.6%, as was reported). This is precisely what Mousavi and many others alleged. Some Mousavi aides asserted that no votes at all were counted. Dr. Ali Ansari agreed: “I don’t think they actually counted the votes, though that’s hard to prove.” Hundreds of other commentators made similar statements. Ironically, any such mischief would be a blessing in disguise for Mousavi – an opportunity to prove his case. For the first time ever, Interior Ministry officials in the 2009 election reported a per-candidate vote count for every ballot box (see note 1). This simplified Mousavi’s task. He needed merely to show that a ballot-box count reported by the Interior Ministry did not match the Form 22 ballot-box count witnessed by a Mousavi observer. The following passage, and the two paragraphs that follow it, make clear how the ballot-box-level reports issued in the 2009 election made it easy to detect vote-counting fraud:   Counting process. The two-stage counting process presents perhaps the most troubling aspect of [Iranian] elections. At each polling station, after the end of voting hours, the votes are counted and recorded on Form 22 in the presence of representatives from the candidates, the Interior Ministry, and the Guardian Council. These forms are secret, however; the results are not announced to the press or released to the candidates. Instead, in the second stage of the counting process, the forms are sent to the Interior Ministry, where the votes are tallied and published on Form 28, which reports the votes by province or county. But because there is no supervision of the preparation, there is no way to compare Form 28 to Form 22. In other words, it is possible for agents from the Guardian Council or the Interior Ministry to change the vote totals before announcing them.   This possibility had existed for every Iranian presidential election before 2009. Once the Form 22 information from a particular polling station had been reported to the Interior Ministry, it would become a small component of regional totals later reported on a Form 28. There would be no way to verify a Form 28 because the hundreds of Form 22′s that had been summed up to yield its reported totals would not have been published and candidates’ representatives would not have monitored the Interior Ministry’s tabulation process. A candidate’s election-day observer would know only the vote count reported by his own polling station. This changed in the 2009 presidential election. The Interior Ministry added a crucial detail to its report. Instead of reporting only county-level and province-level totals, it also reported the vote count for each ballot-box – the very same vote-count number reported on a Form 22. For the first time, it was possible and quite easy, to challenge any ballot-box count: just compare the Form 22 field count with the Interior Ministry’s official count. The Guardian Council claims that it asked Mousavi “time and time again to provide the council with any evidence or examples about the discrepancy” in ballot-box counts, but that “no documents or evidence were received.” Mousavi has not disputed this, nor has he ever cited a discrepancy for any of the 45,692 ballot boxes. Even if thousands of his would-be observers were improperly turned away, as Mousavi insists (see next section), tens of thousands of them observed election-day activities at polling stations all across Iran and indicated their approval of the reported result – either by signing the Form 22 or, at least, by failing to dispute the vote counts reported by the Interior Ministry for their polling stations. The Guardian Council claims to have “written evidence” of approvals which “if necessary can be given to the media to inform the public,” though it has not specified the nature or extent of its “written evidence.” Mousavi has not asked that any written evidence be released. Since the necessary data have long been available to compare ballot-box counts, only two explanations for Mousavi’s silence come to mind: either no such discrepancy exists, or no one has bothered to check. To exclude the second possibility, someone should make these comparisons now – ideally for every ballot box, but at least for several thousand chosen to yield a valid statistical sample. If all tested ballot-box counts match, it will follow that vote-count fraud was not committed either by the Interior Ministry or at any polling station where a Mousavi representative observed the vote count and did not dispute the reported result. This would leave only the possibility that vote counts were falsified at “unobserved” polling stations, which can be determined by comparing “unobserved” with similar “observed” ballot boxes as discussed in the next section. All of this begs a question, of course: Haven’t these ballot-box comparisons already been made? When the Interior Ministry released its official ballot-box-level reports, was there a single election-day observer in all of Iran who did not immediately compare his personal notes of the vote count with the Interior Ministry’s reported count for his polling station? And if the two counts did not match, is there a single Mousavi observer who would not have reported the discrepancy immediately? One is tempted to answer “no” to both questions. Finally on this point, might some of Mousavi’s polling station observers have been deceived by Ahmadinejad’s vote-riggers? Though this possibility cannot be dismissed entirely, it seems unlikely and Mousavi has not identified any polling station where this allegedly occurred. A typical polling station observer is smart, zealous, alert and well-trained to spot signs of polling-station fraud – that is his only reason for being there, after all. Nor can it be said that some types of polling-station fraud are undetectable even by the best of observers. The activities carried on at a polling station are not complicated or difficult to monitor. Absent at least an allegation that an observer was deceived, his approval of a field count should be considered sufficient evidence that the count was correct.   Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Leader: Only Qualified Candidates Can Enter the 2013 Presidential Race Iran political parties prepare for presidential elections Iran’s Ex-FM says Supreme Leader had Accepted a Plan to Solve the Nuclear Issue US unable to attack Iran: Special adviser to Iran’s leader Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 Tags: Ali Larijani, Ayatollah Khamenei, featured, Iran, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Majlis, Mehdi Karroubi, Mir-Hossein Mousavi, Mohsen Rezaee, Mohsen Rezaei, Supreme Leader, Tehran
####May 22nd, 2013####Disqualified Candidates Cannot Appeal Decision Of The Guardian Council####“According to the law, disqualified candidates cannot appeal the decision of the Guardian Council,” said Abbas-Ali Kadkhodaei the spokesman of the Council in an interview with Iran’s state TV on Tuesday. Just a few hours after list of vetted presidential candidates publicly announced, Kadkhodaei appeared in the state TV to explain the decision of the Guardian Council. Removal of Iran’s former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani from the presidential race generated surprise in the reformist front which was hoping to return to the power with supporting Hashemi. “We considered the age of the candidate. So the Guardian Council believes that an old candidate, despite his well management ability, is not physically capable to accept the responsibilities of presidency,” Kadkhodaei said. Hashemi’s old age (78) has been the target of criticism by his rivals and authorities. “If a presidential candidate disqualified by the Guardian Council, it doesn’t mean that he is not qualified to perform in other political positions,” he said. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Guardian Council Hinted at Hashemi Rafsanjani’s Disapproval Hashemi Rafsanjani Disqualified Leaves Tehran, Miffed or Fighting? Breaking: Iran’s Interior Ministry Announced List of Qualified Presidential Candidates What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Tags: Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, headline, Iran Elections
####June 19th, 2013####Don’t Expect Drastic Changes From Rowhani####Hassan Rowhani held his first press conference since being elected as Iran’s new president and answered questions from Iranian and international reporters regarding his proposed policies on internal and foreign affairs. On Monday his answers were surprising for all observers. Of course the election of Rowhani as Iran’s new president will make some changes on the country’s methods in dealing with internal and international issues but it is unrealistic if one expects Rowhani a moderate cleric to make substantial changes on Iran’s policies. As IransView’s Abdullah Almasi explained earlier Rowhani is not a real reformist and lacked the popularity of the Reformists’ main candidate Mohammad Reza Aref whose followers ended up unifying behind the previously Fundamentalist Rowhani. Supporters of Hassan Rowhani celebrating his victory in “Daneshjoo” park of Tehran shortly on June 15,2013. Following Rowhani’s victory in Iran’s Presidential election, western leaders reacted positively and expressed hope that Rowhani would take Iran on a ‘different course.’ “The expectations of the international community with regard to Iran are significant, especially about its nuclear programme and its involvement in Syria, ” French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said in a statement shortly after Rowhani won the Iran’s election. In the President-elect’s first press conference a reporter of France24 recalled the time that Mr. Rowhani as the Secretary of Iran’s National Security Council suspended Iran’s nuclear activities and asked whether he is ready to suspend nuclear enrichment again as a confidence building step. “That era is behind us,” Rowhani replied. The decision of the Reformist government in 2004 (when Rowhani was Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator) to suspend all of Iran’s nuclear activities attracted a lot of criticism because the West failed to abide by its promises and to normalize Iran’s nuclear dossier. In the last months of the Reformist government of Mohammad Khatami Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Khamenei ordered the reformist government to cancel the voluntary suspension of nuclear activities and later the Principalist Mahmoud Ahmadinejad would win the election by promising to reactivate Iran’s nuclear activities in his campaigns. Now after 8 years of significant progress in Iran’s peacefull nuclear program, Hassan Rowhani says a suspension of nuclear activities is a step backward. “Our nuclear programme is completely transparent,” Mr Rowhani said on Monday in his presser. He also condemned sanctions against Iran by saying “The sanctions are unfair and our (nuclear) activities are legal. These sanctions are illegal and only benefit Israel.” On Iran’s stance toward Syria also Rowhani showed no change from the past. “Our stance on Syria will never change,” Rowhani said. “The final decision-maker about the fate of Syria is the Syrian nation, we oppose terrorism and a civil war and that other countries want to interfere in Syria’s internal affairs.” Regarding Iran-US relations Rowhani also did not show a significant difference to the stance of Ayatollah Khamenei. The issue of “Iran’s relations with the United States is a complicated and difficult one,” said Rowhani, adding “anyway we will not pursue any escalation of tensions.” “Any talks with the United States should be based on mutual respect and interests as well as being on an equal footing,” said Rowhani repeating the Supreme Leader’s words regarding the issue. The resumption of negotiations with the United States has a number of pre- conditions,” Rowhani said on Monday in his first press conference. “U.S. officials should not interfere in Iran’s internal affairs as they have committed to in the [1981] Algeria accord. They should recognize all Iranian rights including nuclear rights. And the United States should give up unilateral measures against Iran.” Among the chief provisions of the Algeria accord between Iran and the US were that ‘The US would not intervene politically or militarily in Iranian internal affairs’ and ‘The US would remove a freeze on Iranian assets and trade sanctions on Iran’ both of which were violated by the US. Iran’s President Hassan Rowhani gesture during his first presser on June17,2013. The surprise for internal and external observers was not only Rowhani’s alignment with Iran’s current foreign policy, but also that some hardline reformist media also failed to see a sign of a big change in internal affairs. “I’m the president of all of Iranians,” Rowhani replied when a reformist reporter asked him to reward reformists who backed him in the presidential election. “Firstly I appreciate all individual and parties who supported me in the election campaign but please don’t forget that I’m the president of all Iranians.” Rowhani also refused to answer a couple of questions asked by reformist reporters about the two reformist leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi who are under house arrest since the post 2009 election unrest. Rowhani’s reply to a reporter who insisted that Rowhani promise to invite Mohammad Reza Aref, the reformists’ candidate who quit the election race by request of Mr. Khatami was not clear and it seems Mr. Aref is still upset because the Reformist voters left him to support Rowhani. Aref said repeatedly in his election campaign that he does not recognize Rowhani as a reformist and he is the only candidate of the Reformists. “I’ll invite all those qualified to cooperate with my government including Mr. Aref but it depends on Aref if he accepts the invitation, he may not be willing to be involved in my administration,” Rowhani said. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Unified Iranian Reformists Behind Rowhani The Worst News For Principalists How Did The Fundementalist Rowhani Become The Reformists’ Ultimate Candidate? Khatami Trying To Unify Reformists Behind Aref What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, featured, hassan Rowhani, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Mohammad Khatami, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Principalists, Reformists
####May 22nd, 2013####Everything About Mohammad Gharazi, Unknown Qualified Presidential Candidate####Iran’s Guardian Council approved eight presidential candidates on Tuesday. While some of prominent Iranian politicians couldn’t get qualification, the list of qualified candidates include an unknown name: Mohammad Gharazi. Born in 1941, Gharazi has a master of Electronics Engineering from Tehran University. He was a member of Mojahedin-E Khalgh (MEK) before the 1979 revolution and was a comrade of Imam Khomeini during his exile in France. Although the MEK was an Iranian revolutionary organization that participated in the 1979 Revolution that overthrew the Pahlavi Shah, but it entered an armed conflict with the Islamic government since June 28, 1981 when bombs were detonated at the headquarters of the Islamic Republic Party and Around 70 high-ranking officials were killed. Mohmmad Gharazi apparently left the MEK before members of the organization left Iran for Iraq to fight against the regime along with Saddam Hoseing, then dictator of Iraq during 8 years of Iran-Iraq war. Gharazi served as the minister of Oil in Mir Hossein Mousavi’s cabinet during 1981-85 and was the minister of Post, Telegraph and Telephone in Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani’s administration since 1985 to 1997. Being a member of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) and a Member of Parliament are other notable facts in Gharazi’s political record. His approval for presidential candidacy was a big surprise as he was away from Iran’s political arena for years. He announced his campaign motto as “Anti-Inflation Administration” when he registered for the presidential election.  Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Latest on Iran Election: 7-8 Candidate Will Be Qualified; MPs Urged Rejection of Rafsanjani Breaking: Iran’s Interior Ministry Announced List of Qualified Presidential Candidates Jalili: Amputee Candidate Becoming Frontrunner in Presidential Race Mashaei Will Ask Ayatollah Khamenei And Ahmadinejad To Fix His Disqualification Tags: Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, headline, Iran Elections, IRGC, MEK, Mir-Hossein Mousavi, Mohammad Gharazi
####June 29th, 2013####Excerpts From The New President’s First Live Speech: Iranians Chose a New Path####On the Presidential Election: - This election was a response to all the accusations against the Islamic Republic and its purity.  - Islamic Republic’s founder taught us that the country should be ruled by people according to Islamic laws.  - Iranians chose a new path. The future administration should act according to the will majority of voters. Iranians voted for moderation and logic. - I’ve heard many people who didn’t vote that they are sorry that they didn’t participate in the glorious election. They usually say they didn’t know it was going to turn out like this. On the next administration’s approach: - The future administration should avoid extremism. Iranians demanded national unity.  People demanded implementing the law. The government is obliged to treat people equally according to law.  - Moderation should be present in every aspect of the country. - I have discussed with the President Ahmadinejad to facilitate the transition process. -The future administration is faithful to its promises. This administration is not from one political faction and is not committed to one party. I welcome every politician from any political faction, only if they are moderate. On the Foreign Policy:  -We are facing a unique situation in our foreign policy. Our foreign policy is neither a contentiousness nor animosity. - We have to cooperate with other countries according to our mutual interests. We have to take confidence building steps. Excerpts collected from our partner NasimOnline. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iranians Go To Polls As Leader Khamenei Urged High Turn Out Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy How Iranians Vote Don’t Expect Drastic Changes From Rowhani Tags: hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
####May 21st, 2013####Hashemi Rafsanjani Disqualified Leaves Tehran, Miffed or Fighting?####Iran’s former president Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani left Tehran for the holy city of Qom this afternoon, an informed source speaking on condition of anonymity told Iran’sView. “He left Tehran after he was informed that he was disqualified as a candidate by the Guardian Council,” the source said. Iran’s interior ministry announced today (Tuesday) the list of qualified candidates for the presidential election. Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and president Ahmadinejad’s controversial aide, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei were disqualified by the Guardian Council for being competent to take responsibility of the presidency. “Mr. Hashemi is to meet some of Qom’s top clerics,” the source said. Hashemi may be seeking the support of powerful Ayatollahs in Qom to appeal the decision of removing him from the presidential election race. Although some other observers suggest that chairman of the Expediency Discernment Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani left Tehran as a “sign of pain”. “His disqualification makes a very bad impact on his public image, he may stay in Qom and not return to Tehran,”an observer who is familiar with Hashemi said. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Iran’s Guardian Council Hinted at Hashemi Rafsanjani’s Disapproval Hashemi Rafsanjani Will Run For President: His Daughter Latest on Iran Election: 7-8 Candidate Will Be Qualified; MPs Urged Rejection of Rafsanjani Tags: Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Qom, Tehran
####May 8th, 2013####Hashemi Rafsanjani Will Run For President: His Daughter####Fatemeh Hashemi Rafsanjani, daughter of Iran’s former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said her father will run in the forthcoming presidential elections. “My father will register for next month’s presidential election but he will register in the last days of the registration process,” she is quoted as saying by a source close to Hashemi’s family. The source spoke to the Iran’sView on condition of anonymity. Speculations over whether Hashemi Rafsanjani, currently chairman of the Expediency Discernment Council of Iran will run for the presidency is one of the main topics in the reformist camp. Rafsanjani never said he would not run for the presidency but he also did not affirm it either. In a meeting with a reformist journalist two weeks ago he only said ‘I haven’t said that I will not run [for the presidency]!’ The press interpreted this stance as Hashemi is willing to try his chance for a second time to be Iran’s President. Last time, he lost the race to his rival Mahmoud Ahmadinejad who won 62 percent of the vote in the run-offf poll against Akbar Hashemi Rafsnjani. Speculations over Hashemi’s run for the upcoming election became complicated when some Iranian opposition news sites reported a meeting of Rafsanjani with a former state governors from the reformist and moderate camps in which the former Iranian president said he did not foresee a situation in which he and the supreme leader, Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei could work together. Also Former intelligence minster of Iran, Ali Younesi said on May 7 that in a meeting with Rafsanjani on Monday (May 6), former president insisted that he would not run for president. Earlier on May 5, Hashemi told a group of university students in Tehran on May 5 that he is assessing the situation before making up his mind to enter the country’s upcoming presidential election. Rafsanjani also said that he needs to consult the Supreme Leader before making a decision in this regard. “I will not enter the race without the Leader’s blessing because if Ayatollah Khamenei does not agree with my candidacy, “the result will be counterproductive,” Hashemi said. Political analysts believe that Hashemi is weighing the situation to run for president as he doesn’t want to repeat the unpleasant experiences he had of losing in the two last elections of parliamentary and presidential elecctions in the last decade. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Leader: Only Qualified Candidates Can Enter the 2013 Presidential Race Iran political parties prepare for presidential elections Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Tags: Ali younesi, Ayatollah Khamenei, Fatemeh Hashemi Rafsanjani, Hashemi Rafsanjani, headline, Iran Elections
####May 22nd, 2013####Hashemi Will Not Oppose His Disqualification By The Guardian Council: Campaign’s Spokesman####“Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani will not consider any objection to the decision of his disqualification by the Guardian Council,” Eshagh jahangiri the spokesman of Hashemi Rafsanjani ‘s election campaign said in an interview with Iranian Students’s News Agency on Wednesday. “Mr.Hashemi Rafsanjani and his campaign entered to the presidential race while committed to the law and ethics and we will continue [to respect the law],” he said. “Hashemi was and god willing will remain as a pillar of the regime.” Iran’s interior ministry announced on Tuesday that Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a two-term former president had been disqualified by the Guardian Council to run in next month’s election to succeed President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The list of qualified candidates also did not include the name of the President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s top aide, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei. Mashaei said he will ask the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei to help him back in the presidential race. But Rafsanjani did not immediately comment on the decision. Abbas-Ali Kadkhodaei the spokesman of the Council in an interview with Iran’s state TV on Tuesday that according to the Iran’s presidential election law, disqualified candidates cannot appeal the decision of the Guardian Council.  Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Disqualified Candidates Cannot Appeal Decision Of The Guardian Council Iran’s Guardian Council Hinted at Hashemi Rafsanjani’s Disapproval Hashemi Rafsanjani Disqualified Leaves Tehran, Miffed or Fighting? Mashaei Will Ask Ayatollah Khamenei And Ahmadinejad To Fix His Disqualification Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, Eshagh Jahangiri, Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, headline, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Supreme Leader
####June 15th, 2013####Hassan Rowhani Elected As Iran’s New President####Reformist presidential candidate Hassan Rowhani Casting his vote in a polling station in holy shrine of Abulazim, south of Tehran. Hassan Rowhani becomes Iran’s new president after winning 50.7% of the votes. Iran’s Minister of the Interior Mostafa Mohammad Najjar officially announced the final results of Iran’s presidential election (held yesterday Friday). A 72.7% turn-out of voters shocked foreign observers who didn’t predict such a high participation. Of the 36,704,156 votes tallied Rowhani won a total of 18,613,329. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei issued a statement congratulating the “Political Acheivement” of the Iranian nation and to the elected President. In his statement Ayatollah Khamenei described people’s high turn-out as a respond to the western propaganda against Iran. “The real winner is Iranian nation,” he said. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad who will remain Iran’s president for almost 2 months more issued a statement praising the Iranian nation for their strong participation in the elections. He also congratulated his successor Hassan Rowhani. Rowhani’s Principalist rivals; Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, Saeed Jalili, Mohsen Rezaee and Ali Akbar Velayati also congratulated the President to be. Tehran’s Mayor Ghalibaf won 6,077,292 votes. Iran’s top nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili won 4,168,946 and the former commander of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards Mohsen Rezaee secured 3,884,412 of the votes. Supporters of Hassan Rowhani celebrating his victory in “Daneshjoo” park of Tehran shortly on June 15,2013. Shortly after the announcement of Rowhani’s win, his supporters in Tehran and some other Iranian cities celebrated the victory in the streets.  Former two-term President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani who backed Rowhani in the elections issued a statement on Saturday calling Iran’s elections, the most democratic elections in the world.   “Iranians demonstrated their ignorance to foreign and domestic propaganda. Our enemies should confess that Iran has the most democratic election in the world and they can’t cast doubts on results,” the statement read.   He also appreciated the “Elections authorities” for the perfect conduct of the elections.   “The Tsunami of the Iranian nation beat the White House,” said Mohammad Reza Naghdi the commander of the Basij force (People’s Militia). “The High turn-out in the Iranian election proves the trust of the people to the Islamic establishment.”   On Friday, millions of Iranian voters headed for polling stations to cast their ballots and choose the country’s 11th president as well as their representatives in the city and village councils.   Nearly 50.5 million Iranians, including more than 1.6 million first-time voters, were eligible to vote in the June 14 elections. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Latest Iran Election Info: 80% Turn Out Moderate Rowhani Leading With 50% Iran’s Election: Poll Results Suggest a 50% turnout and A Run Off Voting What Did The Iranian Presidential Candidates Said After Casting Their Votes? Iran’s Presidential Election: Live Stream Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohsen Rezaee, Mohsen Rezaei, Saeed Jalili, Supreme Leader
####June 12th, 2013####How Did The Fundementalist Rowhani Become The Reformists’ Ultimate Candidate?####Presidential Candidate Mohammad Reza Aref (left), former Iranian president, Mohammad Khatami (Right). Mohammad Reza Aref, as an “original reformist”, was expected to stay in the presidential race to the end. However, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani’s opinion and Rowhani having more votes than him led to a different fate for Aref, making him withdraw from the race despite his pledge. Aref said his withdrwal from election was upon a request by Mohammad Khatami, the former reformist president under whom Aref was vice president. On Tuesday Khatami officially supported Rowhani in a statement. But introducing Rowhani as the ultimate candidate for the reformist front in Iran, has surprised a lot of reformist observers. Since the revolution, Rowhani’s activities have never been appealing to the reformists, especially his activities during Khatami’s presidency. He entered Iran’s parliament in 1981, and remained an MP for 5 rounds, being the deputy speaker in the fourth and fifth parliaments which were among the most fundamentalist parliaments in the Islamic Republic and in which the reformist were under much pressure. He has been the Supreme Leader’s representative in the Iran’s Supreme National Security Council since its establishment. Before being recognized as the secretary of the Supreme National Security Council, Rowhani was and still is a member of the fundamentalist ” Combatant Clergy Association”,  ( Jame’e-ye Rowhaniyat-e Mobarez) the main rival of the reformist Assembly of Combatant Clerics (majma’-e rowhāniyūn-e mobārez), the spiritual father of the reformist movement.   Rowhani and The July 1999 Unrest During the 1999 unrest when the reformist students came to the streets and their protest turned to violence, Rowhani condemned the protests harshly in a speech on July 14, calling the reformist protesters “villains”. “If the officials had not prohibited, our people and our Muslim, brave, and revolutionary youth would deal with these villains in the severest way and punish them for what they did.” As the secretary of the Supreme National Security Council, Rowhani also signed the order for house arrest of Ayatollah Montazeri, the spiritual leader of the reformists. A member of Hassan Rownhani’s campaign kisses his hand on June 01, 2013. Hassan Rowhani is a reformist candidate of Iran’s upcoming presidential election.(Photo Credit: Ahmad Pirouz/Nasim) Rowhani’s Controversial Education Rowhani, 55, who is a member of both the Expediency Discernment Council of the System and the Assembly of Experts said in his campaign that he got his Ph D. in Constitutional Law, at Glasgow Caledonian University, UK. A British source, The Telegraph, however has questioned the claim.”A Glasgow Caledonian spokesman said the university was checking Mr Rowhani’s credentials but was unable to confirm them,” the Telegraph stated. Rowhani’s campaign has not reacted to this claim yet. Mr. Rowhani also studied in Qom’s religious Shia school and says he’s got the degree of diligence or “Ijtihad”. Ijtihad is considered as one of the highest religious levels among shias.   Why did Rowhani become the reformist’s ultimate candidate? The most important question now is this: what happened that a non-reformist candidate is introduced as the reformist’s ultimate candidate? The most significant analysis points to a political bargain between Hashemi and Khatami to whose opinions Aref and Rowhani are faithful. After the latest polls showed low votes for Rowhani and Aref compared to the fundamentalist candidates, Hashemi and Khatami agreed that one of the two candidates should quit in favor of the other. This compromise made Aref withdraw and Rowhani the reformist candidate. Hashemi who was sure he would be disqualified by the Guardian Council entered the presidential race upon requests by Khatami and other reformists and bore all of the pressures as if the 80 years old politician only wanted to show his good will to Khatami. He did not even oppose to his disqualification and didn’t push for his re-qualification. It however was a clever move by Hashemi as he expected Khatami to compensate for his sacrifice. Khatami responded to Hashemi’s political sacrifice by agreeing to introduce Rowhani as the ultimate candidate and make Aref withdraw. Based on this, perhaps it can be said that Hassan Rowhani is Hashemi’s full-scale representative in the presidential election and this has resulted in some disputes among a group of reformists. They believe an original reformist like Aref should not have been sacrificed for Rowhani who is considered mostly as a fundamentalist.   Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Unified Iranian Reformists Behind Rowhani The Worst News For Principalists Khatami Trying To Unify Reformists Behind Aref What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Don’t Expect Drastic Changes From Rowhani Tags: Assembly of Combatant Clerics, Combatant Clergy Association, Hashemi Rafsanjani, hassan Rowhani, Iran Elections, Mohammad Khatami, Mohmmad Reza Aref
####May 17th, 2013####How Iranians Vote####By Christopher Bollyn Two Iranian women show their inked fingers and the stamp on their identity cards showing that they have voted. The Islamic Republic of Iran will have a presidential election on June 14, 2013. As an observer of elections in different countries I find that Iranian election procedures are very similar to those of the most democratic elections held in European nations, such as France. Iranians vote on paper ballots that are counted openly in each polling place in the presence of observers. The tally from each polling station is then verified openly and published by the government after the election. These are the most fundamental and essential elements of a transparent and democratic election, and these are exactly the elements that are sadly missing from elections in the United States. It may come as a surprise but Iranian elections are much more transparent that elections in the United States. The voting process and the counting of the votes in Iran are transparent processes, while most votes in the United States are cast and counted on electronic voting systems run by private companies. The use of computer voting systems in the United States has actually allowed our elections to be stolen because the citizenry has lost its oversight of the crucial vote-counting process entirely. Today, there is virtually no open counting of the votes in polling stations in the United States because nearly all voting “data” is processed in computerized systems – not counted by citizens. I recently read Going to Tehran (2013) by Flynt and Hillary Mann Leverett. This is an excellent and timely book that calls for the United States to come to terms with the Islamic Republic of Iran. It is highly recommended reading and should help Americans understand why it is in the best interest of our nation to change course and stop trying to overthrow the Islamic Republic with economic sanctions, covert actions, and threats of war. The Leveretts have served as high-level policy advisors on Iran in various departments and agencies of the U.S. government. In Chapter 6, “A Controversial Election,” they discuss the 2009 election in Iran. On page 246 they describe how Iranians vote and how the votes are counted: Iranian votes are cast on paper ballots. Every Iranian aged eighteen or over, including those living abroad, may vote; in 2009, the Iranian government operated polling stations for expatriates in almost a hundred countries, including the United States. To vote, an Iranian must show an official ID with the bearer’s photograph, thumbprint, and a unique number. At the polling station, the voter’s name and ID number are recorded three times: by hand in a register, on a computer, and again by hand on the voter’s ballot stub. Before casting the ballot, the voter must press a purple-ink thumbprint onto the stub, which is then separated from the ballot and dropped into a “stub box.” (Separation of the stub prior to the casting of the ballot ensures the secrecy of the vote.) The voter marks the ballot and drops it into the ballot box; the voter’s ID card is then stamped, to prevent him or her from voting again. The votes are counted at the polling stations. Before the polls open, observers at each station watch as the ballot boxes are verified to be empty. No votes are counted until after polls close. At that point observers at each station watch as the stubs and ballots are counted and their numbers compared. They then watch as After the polls close the ballots are openly counted in each polling station with observers present. each candidate’s count is recorded on government-issued Form 22; at every station, multiple copies of Form 22 are signed by both officials and observers. Signed forms are placed inside the ballot box, which is sealed and turned over to local officials to hold; signed forms are also sent to the Interior Ministry and copies are given to each observer. In addition, information on these Form 22s is electronically transmitted to district-level offices, where, as candidate observers watch, vote totals from polling stations are aggregated into district-level results and recorded on government-issued Form 28s; these are sent both electronically and physically to the Interior Ministry, which aggregates them into provincial- and national-level results. In 2009, for the first time, data from polling stations were also transmitted directly to the ministry. Source: Going to Tehran: Why the United States Must Come to Terms with the Islamic Republic of Iran by Flynt Leverett and Hillary Mann Leverett, Metropolitan Books, New York, 2013 A version of this article was first published on Bollyn.com. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Elections: Vote Yes or No, Just Be Sure To Vote Did Mahmoud Ahmadinejad Steal the 2009 Iran Election? Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball Ayatollah Khamenei: Iran’s Presidential Election Has Become an International Issue Tags: headline, Iran, Iran Elections
####June 14th, 2013####In Photos: Iran’s Presidential Candidates Casting Their Votes####Ali Akbar Velayati Casting his vote in Iran’s Presidential and City Councils Elections. Saeed Jalili Casting his vote in a polling station in holy shrine of Abulazim, south of Tehran. Reformist presidential candidate Hassan Rowhani Casting his vote in a polling station in holy shrine of Abulazim, south of Tehran.   Presidential candidate Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf Casting his vote in a polling station in holy shrine of Abulazim, south of Tehran.   Mohsen Rezaee Casting his vote. Presidential candidate Sayed Mohammad Gharazi Casting his vote. Click For Live Iran Election Coverage. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: What Did The Iranian Presidential Candidates Said After Casting Their Votes? In Photos: Supporters of Iranian Presidential Candidates Street Campaigning Hassan Rowhani Elected As Iran’s New President In Photos: Iran’s Presidential Election Candidates Registration Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, featured, hassan Rowhani, Iran Elections, Mohammad Gharazi, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohsen Rezaee, Mohsen Rezaei, Saeed Jalili
####May 7th, 2013####In Photos: Iran’s Presidential Election Candidates Registration####Mostafa Muhammad Najjar, Iran’s Interior Minister, ordered the start of registration via video conference, with Iranian and foreign journalists witnessing the process. Candidates in Iran should register beforehand. Registration process started today and will last 5 days. There’s a high possibility of extending the time limit. After registrations, it is common that candidates talk about the common issues surrounding each of them. Sadiq Vaezadeh: Today we’re not in good state, even though I don’t suggest going back to where we were. Several officials and professors recommended my candidacy. An independent candidate who doesn’t belong to a specific party is vital for our country which is going through tense days.   Bagheri Lankarani, Candidate of Jebheye Paydari. Bagheri Lankarani: My candidacy shows that being well connected and being dependent on the wealthy will be of no use and only innovation and hard work, will pay off. I hope that 11th administration will be a symbol for advancement and innovation. Despite his claims of him not being influenced by the wealthy, he was accompanied by Mahsouli, one of the wealthiest officials in the Islamic Republic.     Hassan Rohani, one of leading reformists candidates waving hands to journalists. Hassan Rohani: I’ve very motivated for candidacy. You should ask Hashemi Whether he will support me or not. I’m not aware of Hashemi’s candidacy in the last days of the registration. My fans have chosen “Purple” as the color for the election campaign.   Mostafa Kavakebian fans have also chosen “Green”.This color was used by Reformists in the 2009 election. Mostafa Kavakebian copied the Mir Hossein Mousavi’s green color as his fans’ symbol.   In Iran Presidential elections, every individual can register for candidacy, even they don’t belong to a political party. This will result in non-political people to register to become famous. However, the Guardian Council will disqualify them later. However, the Guardian Council will disqualify them later.   Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Ahmadinejad’s Plans for the Presidential Election Iran political parties prepare for presidential elections Iran’s Leader: Only Qualified Candidates Can Enter the 2013 Presidential Race Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball Tags: featured, hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, Jebheye Paydari, Kamran Baqeri Lankarani, Mohammad Sa'eidikia, Mostafa Kavakebian, Mostafa Muhammad Najjar, Reformists, Sadiq Vaezadeh, Tehran
####June 11th, 2013####In Photos: Supporters of Iranian Presidential Candidates Street Campaigning####Iranians will cast their votes in the presidential election on Friday June 14th. Since the 2009 Post-election protests turned into riots, many observers suggested a sharp decline in the people’s participation in subsequent presidential elections but now, after four years Iran is witnessing a warm race between Reformist, Principalist and independent presidential candidates. A run-off round is expected as none of six remaining candidates are likely to gain 50% of ballots in polls.   Supporters of Mohammad Reza Aref in a central street of Tehran on July 10,2013. Aref quited the race on same day. Man wrapped himself with a poster of Saeed Jalili. Tehran, July 10,2013.   Jalili and Aref supporters campaigin for their candidates in Tehran on July 10,2013. A man looks at a banner of Saeed Jalili.Tehran, July 10,2013. Supporters of Mohammad bagher Ghalibaf campaiging in a central street of Tehran on July 10,2013. Ghalibaf supporters holding banners read “1461 days Truthfulness,” reffering to the number of the days Ghalibaf is Tehran’s mayor. A rally of Mohsen Rezaei’s supporters in Tehran on July 10,2013.   A girl holding posters of Mohsen Rezaei in Tehran.July 10,2013.   Supporters of Hasan Rowhani campaiging for him in Tehran.July 10,2013.   Supporters of Hasan Rowhani campaiging for him in Tehran.July 10,2013.   Supporters of Ali Akbar Velayaticampaigning for him in Isfehan. July 09,2013. Supporters of Ali Akbar Velayati listening to his speech in Isfehan on July 09,2013.   Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: In Photos: Iran’s Presidential Election Candidates Registration Breaking: Iran’s Interior Ministry Announced List of Qualified Presidential Candidates Unified Iranian Reformists Behind Rowhani The Worst News For Principalists Iran Election: Guardian Council Briefed Candidates While Adel Quits the Race Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, hassan Rowhani, Iran Elections, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Mohsen Rezaei, Saeed Jalili
####June 10th, 2013####Iran Election: Guardian Council Briefed Candidates While Adel Quits the Race####Representatives of the 8 Iran’s presidential candidates attended a meeting with the Election Monitoring Committee hosted by the Guardian Council’s spokesman, Abbas-Ali Kadkhodaei on Monday morning. “In this meeting we are to clarify the procedures of the election [for the candidates] and to hear comments of the candidates,” said Kadkhodaei in a presser just before the meeting. While the representative of Gholam Ali Hadad Adel was absent at today’s meeting. A few hours after the meeting Gholam Ali Hadad Adel issued a statement announcing his quit from the election race in favor of the “Prinipalist Candidates”. He didn’t mention name of any of the candidates. The spokesman of the Guardian Council also denied the reports on the possibility of reconsidering qualifications of the reformist candidate Hasan Rowhani.  Iranian Fars News Agency reported earlier today that the Guardian Council will reconsider Rowhani’s qualifications in an urgent meeting today. “We may give notices to the candidates about some aspects of their campaigning but we not review the qualifications,” Kadkhodaei said. At the beginning of the meeting, the represantatives of the candidates delivered a short statement about explaining their candidates’ stance on procedures of the election. “I appreciate the Guardian Council,” said Mohammad Reza Nematzadeh, the representative of Rowhani, “It can avoid any misunderstanding if we the representatives of the candidates be present during sealing of ballot boxes,” he said. The campaing manager of another reformist candidate, Mohammad Reza Aref also said they will be committed to the law in every step of the election. “Our slogan is commitment to the law so we accept the role of the Guardian Council in vetting the qualifications and counting of the ballots,” he said. Shahin Mohammad-Sadeghi a representative of Ali Akbar Velayati also said his candidate is committed to the law and will abide any decision by the Guardian Council. Ali Bagheri the representative of Saeed Jalili also underlined the “important role of the Guardian Council in the last elections” and said: “This initiative by the Guardian Council to have closely interaction with the candidates shows the council has a serious approach [to have a fair election].” Talking to the journalists, Bagheri denied the possibility of Jalili quitting on behalf of any other Principalist candidates. “Saeed Jalili will not quit from the race. His popularity is boosting after the TV debates,” he said. The representatives of Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohammad Gharazi and Mohsen Rezaei endorsed the role of the Guardian Council and wished a fair election with a high turn-out. Iranians will cast their votes on behalf of one the 8 presidential candidates on June 14.  Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Guardian Council Hinted at Hashemi Rafsanjani’s Disapproval Disqualified Candidates Cannot Appeal Decision Of The Guardian Council Iran’s Election: Poll Results Suggest a 50% turnout and A Run Off Voting Breaking: Iran’s Interior Ministry Announced List of Qualified Presidential Candidates Tags: Abbas-Ali Kadkhodaei, Ali Akbar Velayati, bagher, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Guardian Council, hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, Mohammad Gharazi, Mohammad Reza Nematzadeh, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Saeed Jalili
####June 13th, 2013####Iran’s Presidential Election: Live Stream####The Presidential Election has finished with Hassan Rowhani elected as Iran’s new president. Read detailed report here. This Live Stream Automatically Update Every 2 Minutes Hassan Rowhani becomes Iran’s new president after winning 50.7% of the votes. A 72.7% turn-out of voters shocked foreign observers who didn’t predict such a high participation. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei issued a statement congratulating the “Political Acheivement” of the Iranian nation and to the elected President President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad who will remain Iran’s president for almost 2 months more issued a statement praising the Iranian nation for their strong participation in the elections. He also congratulated his successor Hassan Rowhani. Read Full Report Here: http://goo.gl/mZAAW June 15, 2013 - 9:33 PM Hassan Rouhani elected as the President of Iran with 50.7% of votes. Turn-out: 72.7%. June 15, 2013 - 8:45 PM Former two-term President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani who backed Rowhani in the elections issued a statement on Saturday calling Iran’s elections, the most democratic elections in the world. “Iranians demonstrated their ignorance to foreign and domestic propaganda. Our enemies should confess that Iran has the most democratic election in the world and they can’t cast doubts on results,” the statement read. He also appreciated the “Elections authorities” for the perfect conduct of the elections. http://www.iransview.com/latest-iran-election-info-80-turn-out-moderate-rowhani-leading-with-50/1088/ June 15, 2013 - 4:28 PM Read our Latest Update on Iran’s Presidential Election here : http://www.iransview.com/latest-iran-election-info-80-turn-out-moderate-rowhani-leading-with-50/1088/ June 15, 2013 - 1:26 PM Latest Iranian Presidential Result Chart Total Counted Ballots: 8319k http://www.iransview.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/statics.jpg June 15, 2013 - 11:17 AM Latest updates on Iranian presidential election results: 8319k of ballots counted: Hassan Rouhani: 4125k (49.58%) – Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf: 1341k (16.1%)- Saeed Jalili: 1560k (12.6%), Mohsen Rezaee: 708,941 – Ali Akbar Velayati: 412,941 – Mohammad Gharazi: 82,141. Rouhani needs 50%+1of total votes to win in first round otherwise election will go to a run off round. June 15, 2013 - 10:48 AM The minister of Interior announced first official results of vote counting: Voting finished in 1631 polling stations: total ballots: 861,866 1- Hassan Rowhani:401949 2- Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf: 126896 June 15, 2013 - 5:50 AM Iranian Aftab news site, close to Hassan Rowhani says he went to the Interior Ministry to “meet the officials”. June 15, 2013 - 5:13 AM The polling stations closed around the country at 11 pm (1830 GMT) local time on Friday, and vote counting began. We will have Live coverage of vote counting as soon as official results are available. June 15, 2013 - 5:02 AM Nasrallah congratulates “The Festival of Democracy” to the leadership and the nation of Iran, Hopes for similar for Arab states. read the report here: http://goo.gl/LtCHW June 14, 2013 - 9:30 PM The speaker of Iran’s Parliament, Ali Larijani: “I have been informed that people’s turnout has been impressive and perhaps more than their presence in the previous election. In fact, people showed they are sensitive for their fate and understand the current conditions of the country well.” He said people know that they can create a new source of power for their country with their votes and that their votes can influence internal and international conditions. June 14, 2013 - 9:15 PM Election extended for another hour. People can vote until 21:00 local time. June 14, 2013 - 8:19 PM The head of Tehran’s election committee has predicted an almost 70 percent turnout in the province. People’s participation so far has exceeded their participation in 2009 presidential election. “If it continues like this, the participation of people OF Tehran province in the election is reaching 70 percent,” Baratloo said. According to Baratloo, more than 2.5 million ballots were distributed among the polling station during the first eight hours. The election has been extended for two more hours throughout the country due to high turnout June 14, 2013 - 7:31 PM What Did The Iranian Presidential Candidates Said After Casting Their Votes? http://goo.gl/bxxWE June 14, 2013 - 6:43 PM Voting extended for two hours in all of Iran and abroad polling stations due to high turn out of people. June 14, 2013 - 5:54 PM Our correspondent in Tehran says President Ahmadinejad is casting his vote in a mosque in southern Tehran. June 14, 2013 - 5:26 PM The name that most of Iranians will write on this ballot will determine Iran’s next President! http://www.iransview.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/Ballot.jpg June 14, 2013 - 5:14 PM See Our Photo Gallery of Iranian Presidential Candidates casting their votes. http://www.iransview.com/in-photos-irans-presidential-candidates-casting-their-votes/1051/ http://www.iransview.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/rowhani-voting.jpg June 14, 2013 - 4:12 PM Governor of Tehran province Issa Farhadi firmly refuted claims made by some websites that cards for Rowhani’s representatives have not been issued yet, saying that 750 cards have already been issued for his representatives. “We have cooperated with them even more than our responsibility but still they spread lies.” June 14, 2013 - 4:10 PM he head of Tehran’s election committee to the reporters: “so far we have issued 12,500 cards for the representatives of presidential and city council candidates. Except for Mr. Gharazi, all presidential candidates have representatives in all polling stations in Tehran. June 14, 2013 - 4:08 PM View Older
####March 7th, 2013####Iran political parties prepare for presidential elections####Iran’sView: As we get closer to the eleventh presidential election in Iran, the activities of individuals, groups, parties, and coalitions have been increasing significantly and influential figures and parties talk more about the election. Fundamentalist, Reformists, and a group called the Supporters of the Government are the three main parties who are now preparing for the presidential election.   Fundamentalists and the 2+1 coalition It was in mid-December when GholamAli Haddad Adel, MP and politician close to Iran’s Leader, announced the establishment of a coalition among the Fundamentalists. The news broadly spread in the country’s political atmosphere. The new coalition was named “2+1″, including Gholam Ali Haddad Adel, Ali Akbar Velayati (former foreign minister and the leader’s advisor on international affairs), and Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf (the Mayor of Tehran). It seems that the fundamentalists again have turned to the strategy of coalition that has become one of their political traditions in the last decade. This strategy was picked by the Fundamentalists during the second round of the Islamic Councils of Cities and Villages in early 2000s when they were noticeably successful with the establishment of a coalition named “Abadgarane Irane Islami” (or the Builders of the Islamic Iran). “The Coordinating Council of the Revolution’s Forces” in 2005 presidential election, the “5+6″ coalition in parliamentary elections in 2007, and the “7+8″ coalition in parliamentary elections in 2011 are examples of the main coalitions formed by the Fundamentalists. Although the Fundamentalist coalition or the Coordination Council of Revolution’s forces could not succeed in 2005 presidential election and did not announce a single candidate but then the three fundamentalist candidates avoided entering the race and thus Mahmoud Ahmadinejad could win the election. Now that the 2+1 coalition is established, Iran’s Parliament Speaker has reacted and stated that the coalition is not based on the consensus of all fundamentalists. MohammadReza Bahonar, Vice Speaker, has also called for the inclusion of more figures in the coalition. On the other hand Mohsen Rezaei, and Manouchehr Mottaki, former foreign minister under Ahmadinejad have announced their candidacy as independent figures. There has also been news about the candidacy of Mostafa PourMohammadi, and some other figures close to the fundamentalists.   Fundamentalists and Jebheye Paydari (Stability Front) In 2011, a number of Fundamentalists including former members of Ahmadinezad administration and a group of MPs established Jebheye Paydarie Enqelabe Eslami (the Stability Front of the Islamic Republic) with the support of Ayatollah Mesbah Yazdi. The Stability front won a number of seats in the parliament. The fact that members of the Stability were former members of the government administration and parliament is considered to be a strongpoint by the party itself. The most important feature of this party is their disaccord with Hashemi Rafsanjani, setting them at the opposite point to his views. Some of the Fundamentalists who don’t have good relations with the government believe that the claim that the Stability Front only supports the healthy part of the government is part of and in line with Ahmadinejad’s administration strategy. Assadollah Badamchian the head of Motalefe party said a while ago that “Supporting Ahmadinejad while not supporting Mashaei is a funny joke”. Kamran Baqeri Lankarani, the speaker of the Stability Front has dismissed claims over the group’s support for Mashaei, Ahmadinejad’s Advisor, saying “We have no common candidate with the movement that supports the government’s election team.” Currently Kmaran Baqeri Lankarani (former Health Minister), Parviz Fattah (former Energy Minister under Ahmadinejad’s first administration), and Saeed Jalil are considered as the candidates for Stability Front.     The group called Hamiane Doulat (“The Supporters of Government”) Although Ahmadinejad once told reporters that “we don’t think about the election’s candidates even for a moment”, many political observers believe that he would not easily hand down the presidency to a person with no inclination towards him. During a chat in the Iranian state TV when the host used the phrase “the last year of the government”, Ahmadinejad reacted with a grin and said “Who said it is the last year of the government?” Some political observers believe Ahmadinejad’s supports for controversial figures like Mashaei and vice president Mohammad Reza Rahimi are pieces of puzzle of his step-to-step strategy. It is said that Ahmdinejad’s choice for presidential candidacy is Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei. Mashaei’soffice however has denied his candidacy. GholamHossein Elham, Government speaker, Ali Nikzad, the Housing Minister, Kamran Daneshjo, the Minister of Science, and Ali Akbar Salehi, Foreign Minister, are possible candidates supported by Ahmadinejad. The Stability Front and the 2+1 coalition are rivals inside the Fundamentalist groups, with both having the same view in opposition to Government and the Reformists.   Reformists  The possible candidates of Hashemi’s electoral plan, known as “National Unity” or “National Rescue” are seen more often in the news. Ayatollah Hashemi who entered the electoral arena with his “Free Election” slogan, met with Ali Akbar Nateq Noori, a well-known clergyman and a member of Rohaniat Mobarez. “I am in touch with revolution forces, figures in Bazar (well-known businessmen), and the clergymen. They express their worries over the way you are treated. Come to the scene openly and we all support you,” said Nateq Noori in the meeting. Previous elections show that whenever Hashemi enters the electoral arena openly he himself or those under his support have failed (like in the sixth round of parliamentary elections, or the 2005 and 2009 presidential elections). This time, however he is determined to have an effective presence. “I’ll be present in the scene of the eleventh presidential election fearlessly and will influence the election,” a reformist paper quoted Hashemi as saying in response to Nateq Noori. The newspaper claimed that “National Unity Government” holds sessions with the presence of Hashemi, Nateq Noori, and former president Mohammad khatami, and that one of the three members of the “national unity triangle” would be announced as the candidate for presidency. There are other speculations which say the national unity triangle would announce another figure likeHassan Rohani as their candidate. These days Hashemi family is significantly and seriously involved in the political arena. “We should say that Rohani’s candidacy for presidential election is definite. Moderation is now a public demand and his 36-year records show he has always observed moderation and had good relations with all political groups,” Yasser Hashemi, one of the sons of the family, said in support for Rohani’s candidacy. His remarks come as some consider Khatami as the main choice of Hashemi for presidential candidacy. It should be noted that the reformists, especially “Mousavi Khoiniha” have clearly understood that boycotting the elections is not beneficial for them. Once they said “If we don’t come there would be no competition and rivalry so the people’s participation would be reduced” but now they have come to this conclusion that they should enter the election even with one candidate as they now have learnt from past experiences like the ninth round of parliamentary elections. Although figures like Saeed Hajjarian talked of decrease in the spirit of reform even among the heads of reformists, some like Majid Ansari and GolamHossein Karbaschi, former mayor of Tehran and a member of Kargozaran would like to gain power through the reformists coming to the power. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball Iran’s Elections: Vote Yes or No, Just Be Sure To Vote Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy In Photos: Iran’s Presidential Election Candidates Registration Tags: 2+1 coalition, Ali Akbar Salehi, Ayatollah Khamenei, Ayatollah Mesbah Yazdi, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, featured, Fundamentalists, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, GholamHossein Elham, Hashemi Rafsanjani, Iran Elections, Jebheye Paydari, Kamran Daneshjo, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Manouchehr Mottaki, Mohsen Rezaei, Reformists
####June 23rd, 2013####Iran Updates: Khatami Thanked The Supreme Leader, Rowhani Vowed To Empower The Islamic Republic####In a meeting with the members of Motalefe Eslami, a powerful Principalist faction, Iran’s President-elect, Hassan Rowhani said on Sunday: “Supreme Leader had a key role in the political epic,” Referring to the high turnout in Iran’s presidential election he said: “I’ve done my best to empower the Islamic Republic and now I need your help.” Rowhani also met with Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and reformist figures Mohammad Khatami and Mohammad Reza Aref on Saturday. Presidential Candidate Mohammad Reza Aref (left), former Iranian president, Mohammad Khatami (Right). Khatami Thanked The Supreme Leader Aytollah Khamenei Former President and a leader of Reformist movement in Iran Khtami said in his meeting with Rowhani that “We should thank the Supreme Leader [Ayatollah Khamenei] for his effort to create the grounds of the political epic.” Rowhani Will Go to Majlis Rowhani will go to Iran’ Majlis on Wednesday to Meet MPs and consult them about his cabinet. Iran’s President-Elect To Visit Iraq and Senior Shia Clerics The Iraqi Al-Dostour newspaper reported that Iran’s President-elect will travel to Iraq in early July to meet Shia senior clerics in Najaf. According to the report, Rowhani will visit holy cities of Najaf and Karbala. Possibility of his meeting with Iraqi officials is unknown. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Khatami Trying To Unify Reformists Behind Aref Iran’s Leader: Vote to Any of The Presidential Candidates is a Vote to The Islamic Republic Unified Iranian Reformists Behind Rowhani The Worst News For Principalists How Did The Fundementalist Rowhani Become The Reformists’ Ultimate Candidate? Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, Hashemi Rafsanjani, hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, Iraq, Mohammad Khatami, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Motalefe Eslami, Supreme Leader
####March 7th, 2013####Iran’s Election: Principalists In Disarray After Hashemi Disqualified####As Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani’s candidacy broke the arrangement among Iran’s presidential candidates, his withdrawal did the same too. The 78 year old politician, who entered with much hype and went away silently, caused a unity among Pincipalists at first, but his withdrawal created division. They don’t think of Mohammad Reza Aref, Mohsen Rezaei, Hasan Rowhani and Mohammad Gharazi as serious opponents, so they don’t feel the need for unity. Four Pincipalist candidates are Ali Akbar Velayati, Muhammad Baqer Qalibaf and Haddad Adel who are three members of the Progressive Coalition or the Coalition of 2+1 who seem to be open to Saeed Jalili joining them. The members of the Progressive Coalition were supposed to reach a consensus on one candidate, based on polls and surveys. But even 20 days after the agreement, no one stood aside for the sake of the other two. From Left to Right: Mohmmad Reza Aref, Gholamali Hadad-Adel, Ali Akbar Velyati, Ali Akbar Nategh-Nori Ali Akbar Velayati Velayati, an advisor to Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei on International affairs, recently said “the three members of the coalition will keep campaigning and at a point before the voting day on June 14, we will decide who is going to be the final candidate. He also said the decision by the Combatant Clergy Association and the Society of Seminary Teachers of Qom (two highly influential clergy institutions in Iran) is highly capable of choosing the final candidate. “The exact time of announcing the chosen candidate is not clear and depends on the coalition’s decision. Debates and talks will be held and they will decide by popularity, legitimacy and efficiency,” Shahin Mohammad Sadeghi, MP and the head of Velayati’s presidential campaign told Iran’sView. He reiterated that the polls and surveys are just as important as the decision by the two important clergy institutions. “Jalili’s involvement in the Progressive coalition is also relying on the decision by the coalition members. But the whole Principalist party is trying to reach an accord based on the decision of aforementioned institutions and public popularity,” he said.   Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf Yet Qalibaf is not a fan of this idea. Because even though recent polls put him above Velayati and Haddad Adel, he will not have a chance with the two clergy institutions. Gholam Ali Haddad Adel Haddad Adel, former Speaker of the Majlis, said on Wednesday, “We think of Jalili as a Pincipalist and in case he joins our Progressive coalition only one of us will stand for presidency.” Like Velayati, he believes in the final decision by the two clergy institutions, but “We also consider polls and we have to wait for the TV debates to assess the real outcome.” It is not clear whether the coalition of 2+1will turn into 4, but Jalili hasn’t responded to the invitation by the coalition. Saeed Jalili is known for being the chief nuclear negotiator among the public and has more votes from the Pincipalist party and other tough defenders of nuclear rights. Head of the Hadad Adel presidential campaign, Hossein Nejabat has a different view from Sadeghi. “When Mr.Velayati said [all members of the coalition] will campaign separately until the end, he did not mean campaigning until the voting day, but it might be the 6th or 7th of June,” he said in an interview with Iran’sView. “The polls are taken one week before the election and will decide the fate of the progressive coalition. In fact, the coalition thinks public opinion is not shaped yet. They are waiting for the TV campaigns to decide on the final candidate. It is definite that three of them will not seek a spot on the ballot,” Nejabat said. Nejabat also thinks differently about the decision of the two clergy institutions. “Those institutions will not meddle in the election or decide on the final candidate,” he said, but “It is very important for the coalition that senior clerics are not against the final candidate so they are trying to be on the same path as them.” He also denies inviting Jalili and says Hadad Adel did not invite him directly. “A group of students asked Dr. Adel if he will accept Jalili as a member of the coalition if he stands for candidacy. Adel answered, if Jalili attracts a significant amount of voters we will consider his participation.”   Saeed Jalili waving his hands to the crowd of his supporters during his first election campaign in Tehran on May 24,2013. (Photo Credit: Nasim) Saeed Jalili Bagheri Lankarani and Alireza Zakani withdrawal has boosted Jalili’s votes and gained him popularity but it seems that Jalili is not that willing to join the “Progressive Coalition”. He is characterized by his firm stance on foreign policy, avoiding huge campaign expenditures and distancing himself from secular parts of society. This has distinguished him from other coalition members, especially Qalibaf. Qalibaf and Velayati to some extent are not cynical about figures like Hashemi but Jalili is. Even though he is more like Adel, because of his differences with Qalibaf, it is less likely that he will join the progressive coalition and this division will work for the benefit of the reformists. If Qalibaf is to be the final candidate, many of Velayati and Adel supporters will abandon Qalibaf. Becuase Adel and Velayati to seem to think closer to Jalili. We have to see if the possibility of the victory of the two independent candidates (Mohsen Reza’ei and Mohammad Gharazi) or the two Reformist candidates (Aref and Rowhani) will convince the Pinricpalists to set their differences aside or the elections will become more volite. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Iran’s Guardian Council Hinted at Hashemi Rafsanjani’s Disapproval Subsidies Are A Hot Election Issue In Iran Lankarani Withdraws to Make Jalili the Frontrunner for Principalist Candidate Tags: 2+1 coalition, Ali Akbar Velayati, Combatant Clergy Association, featured, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Hashemi Rafsanjani, headline, Hossein Nejabat, Iran Elections, Mohammad Gharazi, Mohsen Rezaei, Principalists, Reformists, Saeed Jalili, Shahin Mohammad Sadeghi, Society of Seminary Teachers of Qom
####May 12th, 2013####Iran’s Elections: Vote Yes or No, Just Be Sure To Vote####The Iranian leadership has a talent of mobilizing people when it is needed. From the 8-year Iran-Iraq war (1980-1988) when many Iranians under 16 (the legal age of military recruiting), falsified their birth certificates to volunteer in the “Holy Defense”, to the mass support of Iran’s nuclear program and high turnouts in lots of elections, the people’s presence has always emboldened the leadership’s authority in the international arena and increased its bargaining power.   Since the 2009 Post-election protests turned into riots, many of the reformists’ leaders were severely sidelined and all predictions suggested a sharp decline in the people’s participation in subsequent presidential elections.   But Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei in all of his elections related public speeches has stressed the need for the wide participation of people. And maybe he was the only one to say there will be a mass presence of people in the next elections with high confidence.   As we got closer to the 2013 presidential election time, speculation over which groups and individuals will take part in the election increased. Debates got hotter as the supreme leader gave a green light to reformists.   The last minute registrations of controversial candidates with different ways of thinking such as Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Saeed Jalili completely changed the atmosphere of the Iranian elections.   Gatherings and street rallies by candidates’ supporters recalled the 2009 electoral enthusiasm which resulted in an 85% turnout the highest turnout ever in the Islamic Republic’s presidential elections.   Now approaching the 2013 presidential election, while nobody expects a repetition of the 2009’s unprecedented enthusiasm, a management of the country’s political atmosphere and allowing different tastes to take part in the election led to the early formation of an electoral atmosphere and changed people’s routine discussions’ into topics related to the candidates.   Contrary to some people’s expectations Iran’s leadership do not look at the current political and social conditions as negative. Actually disagreements and controversies around the reformists’ and administration backed candidate’s policies seem to be a factor in increasing people’s engagement.   And disputes arising from possible disqualification of some candidates like Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei who is fully backed by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad will also help to make the elections more significant.   The leadership wants a wide presence of people at the next election. Because it will be a reaffirmation of the regime by the people. Iran’s leader has also always stressed on the “people’s participation” much more than any other factor. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran political parties prepare for presidential elections Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Iran’s Leader: Only Qualified Candidates Can Enter the 2013 Presidential Race Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, featured, Hashemi Rafsanjani, headline, Iran, Iran Elections, Iran's Nuclear Program, Iraq, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Saeed Jalili, Supreme Leader
####April 21st, 2013####Iran’s Ex-FM says Supreme Leader had Accepted a Plan to Solve the Nuclear Issue####Iran’s former Foreign Minister said during one of his meetings with Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, he presented a proposal for “reaching an agreement with the group of P5+1 in nuclear talks,” and Ayatollah Khamenei accepted the proposal. Ayatollah Khamenei Greets Manouchehr Mottaki, Then Foreign Minister (Left) during a meeting in 2010 with the President Ahmadinejad’s Cabinet Members. In the Middle is Ali AKbar Velayati, Supreme Leader’s Special Adviser on International Affairs. Manouchehr Mottaki, who served as Iran’s Foreign Minister from 2005 to 2010, and has now announced his candidacy for the Presidential elections in June, told Iran’s Supreme Leader in the last months of his service that “We are ready to reach an agreement with the P5+1.” “[In this scenario] we also should make the West accept our rights and allow them to announce that they convinced Iran to accept their demands,” Mottaki said as he explained his plan to Ayatollah Khamenei. The plan, apparently, proposed to accept of some of the P5+1 demands as a face-saving step for the western side. Speaking in a conference of “Union of Islamic Societies of Independent Students” in Tehran, Mottaki said on Friday that he suggested Iran should declare the Supreme Leader’s Nuclear Fatwa (religious edict, declaring that the production, stockpiling, and use of nuclear weapons are all prohibited in Islam), and increase cooperation with the IAEA, despite all of their sabotages. “The Supreme leader accepted my plan, [then] we discussed it with President Ahmadinejad and [following his order] a 4- member team was formed,” he said. “but unfortunately I was dismissed after a few months,” Mottaki said. On 13 December 2010, Mottaki was dismissed as foreign minister – while on an official tour of Africa – by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. President Ahmadinejad appointed the country’s then top nuclear official, Ali Akbar Salehi, to replace Mr Mottaki. “We were [running] in a marathon, we had to manage sanctions and perform our policies simultaneously,” He said about his serving period as Iran’s Foreign Minister. “On the nuclear issue since 2005 we have arrived at a new battle, we reached self-sufficiency in uranium enrichment and consequently are facing fresh pressures from the West,” Mottaki asserted saying “…for the one who has the upper hand, retreating will make him the loser.” Iran’s Supreme National Security Council formulates the country’s nuclear policy. The nuclear policies formulated by the council would become effective if they are confirmed by the Supreme Leader. The Secretary of the council, Saeed Jalili acts as the chief nuclear negotiator of Iran. Latest round of talks between Iran and the P5+1 group held April 5th and 6th in Almaty, Kazakhstan. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Leader Explains his Strategy Over Nuclear Issue, Direct Talk With U.S. Iran’s Deputy Nuclear Negotiator Reviews Past Mistakes in Negotiations Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Ayatollah Khamenei: Iran’s Presidential Election Has Become an International Issue Tags: Ali Akbar Salehi, Almaty, Ayatollah Khamenei, Catherine Ashton, featured, IAEA, Iran Elections, Iran's Nuclear Program, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Manouchehr Mottaki, P5+1, Saeed Jalili, Sanctions on Iran, Supreme Leader
####May 9th, 2013####Iran’s Government Spokesman Complicates Ahmadinejad’s Election Plan####Iran’s government spokesman, Gholam Hossein Elham is to run for president, Mohammad Rahmani an aide to Elham told Iran’sView on Thursday. “Given to the increased requests from the youths and revolutionary people, Dr. Elham is to register in the presidential election,” he said. Elham has held a variety of posts over President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s two terms and was a member of the Guardian Council. Given to possibility of Ahmadinejad’s top aide, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaee will register in the election, Elham’s candidacy will add to complexity of upcoming Iran’s presidential election. It is not clear Ahmadinejad will support which one of his close aides. But Elham’s aide said in an interview with Iran’sView that “he will not withdraw from election race on behalf of Mashaee,” who possibly will run as the government backed candidate.” Some political activists believes that Elham is Ahmadinejad’s alternative candidate to replace Mashaee in case he denied by Guradian Council. But former Ahmadinejad administration’s Minister of Justice, Elham, will not run as “candidate of the government”, Rahmani said. “he will run for president as the candidate of 3rd Tir Current.” Third Tir or July 24 is the date Ahmadinejad won the 2005 presidential election. While Saturday is last day of Candidate registration process, Rahmani didn’t give an exact date of Elham register his candidacy but he said “Youth supporters of Dr.Elham will gather front of his home tomorrow afternoon and will not leave until he go and register for presidential election.” Bahman Sharifzade a cleric close close to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s top aide, Esfandiar Rahim-Mashaee, said in an interview with Shargh newspaper that Mahaee will register for presidential election on Saturday which is last day of Candidate registration for the presidential election. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Mashaee Will Run For President Ahmadinejad’s Plans for the Presidential Election Latest on Iran Election: 7-8 Candidate Will Be Qualified; MPs Urged Rejection of Rafsanjani Hashemi Will Not Oppose His Disqualification By The Guardian Council: Campaign’s Spokesman Tags: Bahman Sharifzadeh, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, GholamHossein Elham, Guardian Council, headline, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Mashaee, Mashaei
####May 20th, 2013####Iran’s Guardian Council Hinted at Hashemi Rafsanjani’s Disapproval####With only one day to the final list from the Guardian Council, Abbas-Ali Kadkhodaei the spokesman of the council said only those who are “physically capable” to perform the presidential responsibilities will be approved. The statement of Kadkhodaei could be a warning for the 78 year old two-term former president Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani whom his old age has been the target of criticism by his rivals and authorities. “Hashemi Rafsanjani does not have energy to run the country,” said Gholam-Ali Hadad Adel a member of the Coalition of 2+1 and a former speaker of Iran’s Majlis. “If I were Hashemi’s age, I would not run for president,” he said. “Usually people with old age have their jobs done by people around them. In the case of Mr. Hashemi this is not possible because they have spent some time abroad and cannot be trusted,” said Mohammad Dehqan a member of Majlis Board of Directors. Kadkhodaei reiterating the Guardian Council “has not any fear to disqualify outlaws” said on Sunday in an interview with Iran’s Arabic-language news Channel, Alalam : “If a candidate is able to work only several hours each day, cannot be qualified.” “If a candidate’s belief to the principals of the Islamic Republic is undermined by his past activities, he should not expect the Guardian Council to approve him,” he said.   All Principalists would go behind of Saeed Jalili Presidential candidate and 2+1 Coalition member Gholam-Ali Haddad Adel said “If Saeed Jalili can create an atmosphere like what Ahmadinejad created in 2005, We all should go behind him.” Speaking to the campaigners of the coalition he also expressed his worry that the upcoming presidential election would bring conflict to the country.   Three Iranian presidential hopefuls have dropped their bid for the June 14 presidential election. Former Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast issued a statement on Sunday saying he is no longer in the presidential race. Davoud Ahmadinejad, the elder brother of incumbent President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, also withdraw in favor of the a Principalist candidate and the secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council, Saeed Jalili. Mohammad Hassan Bautorabi-Fard, MP and the Candidate of the Coalition of Five issued a statement today saying he withdraw from the election race. Some political analysis believe that the quitted candidates were informed of their disqualification in the Guardian Council, so they preferred to quit the race before the council announce the list of denied candidates. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Lankarani Withdraws to Make Jalili the Frontrunner for Principalist Candidate Latest on Iran Election: 7-8 Candidate Will Be Qualified; MPs Urged Rejection of Rafsanjani Jalili: Amputee Candidate Becoming Frontrunner in Presidential Race Tags: Abbas-Ali Kadkhodaei, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, headline, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Majlis, Mohammad Hassan Bautorabi-Fard, Saeed Jalili
####April 28th, 2013####Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy####Iranian Labors meeting with Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei on April 27, ahead of Labors’ Day. (Photo Credit: Khamenei.ir) Ayatollah Khamenei, Iran’s Supreme Leader, met with thousands of Iranian labors ahead of international Labors’ Day, on Saturday morning. He spoke about the Iran’s upcoming 11th Presidential Elections, how to counter sanctions and how to empower domestic production. He has previously named the Iranian New Year as the year of “Political and Economic Epic” and said, “One of the prominent examples of political achievement would be the Elections, which will be held on schedule.” With only 47 days to the Elections, the Leader invited people from different parties once again: “Anyone from any party, who feels he’s capable, can enter the Presidential race.” He stressed the “People’s significant participation” and said, those with ill will are trying to shatter people’s willingness to participate in the Elections in order to derail political achievements. He also called objections against the Guardian Council establishment irrational and said, “We are blessed with the Guardian Council in the Islamic Republic. Imam Khomeini fully supported this establishment. The Guardian Council’s assessment is done by a community of honest people who take no sides and are aware of the requirements.” He said those who want to become candidates should know what the executive management of the country is and they should know what the country needs and how far they can go. He also criticized those inexperienced candidates and said, “Those who are willing to become candidates should know what the country needs and how far they can go.” The following statement was made because a growing number of politicians declared candidacy while some of them have no significant experience in executive management.   Prediction of harder economic situations and criticism of Ahmadinejad’s Economy In reaction to the U.S. and its allies pursuing their sanctions against Iran, Ayatollah Khamenei reiterated: “Our economic policy should be based on an economy of resistance during sanctions, so its firm structure wouldn’t be influenced by world events.” The Leader also said that an economy of resistance during sanctions is different from the economic policies pursued by other countries. He indirectly criticized an unbalanced economic policy in Ahmadinejad’s administration in the last two years and said, “Daily decision making on economy issues, constantly changing them, seeking non-professional advise and believing in Western or Eastern structures of economy, are harmful to the country and our economy policy should be based on an economy of resistance during sanctions. Iran’s Leader said, “Economy hardships and discontent in the West are confirming the failure of Capitalist economic policy.” He believes that what we see in the U.S. and EU is the tip of the iceberg and things will deteriorate because Capitalism is in decline. After economic reforms, coupled with rising sanctions against Iran, domestic production faced a lot of hurdles. Because many ingredients couldn’t make their way to Iranian factories and the government refused to pay subsidies and instead, gave it directly to people, as a monthly payment. This has caused a leap in inflation and consequently, more discontent of the government. This happened exactly in the year which was supposed to be the year of “supporting Iranian workers and their funds”. The Leader reiterated many times that the government and people should support manufacturing. He called on Iranian people to buy goods “Made in Iran”. He ordered governmental organizations not to use any foreign goods for their needs. It seems that Iran’s Leader predicts that his country will face more severe sanctions and harder economic situations. His new policies are implementing a counter-sanctions economy that can withstand forceful pressures from the West; because he reiterated that Iran will not give up its nuclear enrichment rights. Now we can better understand his comments on the required characteristics of the future President: “Iranian people are pursuing big ambitions and achievements and won’t surrender and no one can bully them. So, the President should be someone who is brave and hard-working against the threats of the enemies and won’t retreat. If a huge leap in the economy should be the center of attention in the executive and legislative establishment of the country then we would not counter any political hardship.” One other topic that the Leader elaborated on was his advice to every administration. “I have supported different Administrations and Presidents in the past years and also questioned them on various issues. My main concern was that the administrations should not create difficulties and stress in people’s lives.” He said, governments should not make unreachable promises, but they should progress in a reasonable way.” Critics believe that “inflation” and “baseless promises” are two problems in Ahmadinejad’s administration. The majority of the criticisms against 10th administration are about the economic issues, involving inflation and domestic production. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: A Deeper Look At The Iranian Leader’s New Year’s Speech Iran political parties prepare for presidential elections Iran’s Leader: Only Qualified Candidates Can Enter the 2013 Presidential Race Iran’s Ex-FM says Supreme Leader had Accepted a Plan to Solve the Nuclear Issue Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, featured, Guardian Council, Iran Elections, Iran's Nuclear Program, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Sanctions on Iran, Supreme Leader, USA
####June 14th, 2013####Iran’s Leader Demanded Elections Authorities to Protect People’s Vote####Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei Casts his vote in Iran’s eleventh Presidential Election. The eleventh presidential election is now being held throughout Iran. Iran’s leader cast his vote at the very beginning, calling on the nation to go to the polls in the early hours. The leader also pointed to the remarks by American NSC officials who said they would not recognize Iran’s election. “To hell with their recognition”, he said condemning the remarks. “The enemies of the Iranian nation try to disappoint the people. This sabotage has gone beyond their press and now is done by the politicians in the enemies’ front,” he said. “My expectation from our dear people is to take part [in the elections] and i would recommend to cast their ballots as soon as possible.” Ayatollah Khamenei asked all of elections authorities to protect people’s vote. ” enemies trying to discourage people from voting,” he said. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Leader: Vote to Any of The Presidential Candidates is a Vote to The Islamic Republic Iran’s Elections: Vote Yes or No, Just Be Sure To Vote Iran’s Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei Appreciates Law-abiding Disqualified Candidates Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, headline, Iran Elections
####May 29th, 2013####Iran’s Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei Appreciates Law-abiding Disqualified Candidates####Ayatollah Khamenei in a meeting with members of Iran’s Majlis on May 29,2013. Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei said “everyone should try to have an enthusiastic election with attendance of public. Since the Islamic revolution, strength and power of the Islamic regime was based on the support of the people.” “All of presidential candidates reiterated on their commitment to the law,” said Ayatollah Khamenei in a meeting with members of Iran’s Majlis on Wednsday. “[We] should appreciate all of candidates and especially those who did not qualified [to run for president], but chose to abide by the law,” he said. Observers in Tehran believe that the today’s remarks by the Iran’s supreme leader mean that he will not re-install important disqualified candidates, such as Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. Some political analysts believed Ayatollah Khamenei will use his authority to re-qualify the 78 year old former two-term president of Iran who disqualified by the Guardian Council due to his old age and inability in taking responsibility of the president. Iran’s leader has called on all presidential candidates to be sincere and provide accurate information in their campaigns. “The gentlemen have very important duties. They should be careful to not articulate anything that comes to mouth just to draw attentions.” “The presidential candidates should only say the realities about the current situation and about themselves,” he said. Denying allegations of leader’s support from a specific candidate, he said: “These [allegations] are false and no one knows who the leader will vote for.” “The leader has only one vote as the other people,” he reiterated and dismissed western media propaganda about leader’s opinions. “The enemies put this propaganda on their agenda because of their known goals but the Islamic regime will stay on its path regardless of such propaganda.” Iranians will go to the polls in the nation’s 11th presidential election on June 14. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Mashaei Will Ask Ayatollah Khamenei And Ahmadinejad To Fix His Disqualification Ayatollah Khamenei: Iran’s Presidential Election Has Become an International Issue Iran’s Leader Gives Election Indicators, Slams US Interference Iran’s Leader: Only Qualified Candidates Can Enter the 2013 Presidential Race Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, headline, Iran Elections, Supreme Leader
####May 27th, 2013####Iran’s Leader Gives Election Indicators, Slams US Interference####Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei said on Monday that US want to dishearten people on Iran’s presidential election. Delivering a speech to the graduated students of the Imam Hossein Military Academy in Tehran, he said: “A high turnout in the Iran election would be costly for them (US).” “People vote for those that work for the national esteem, resistance against enemies and making Iran a model for world oppressed,” he said. “[No candidates] should show green light to internal or external enemies.” “It is almost 34 years that US officials use propaganda [against Iran' elections] and each time Iranian people punch them in the mouth [by way of who they choose to vote for],” he said. The US Secretary of State John Kerry on a visit to Israel on Friday criticized the Guardian Council, Iran’s highest electoral supervisory body according to the Constitution, for not approving hundreds of candidates. Kerry also accused the Guardian Council of choosing candidates that represent the interests of the Iranian establishment. One day later, Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi said that according to the Algiers Accords, the United States has agreed not to meddle in Iran’s internal affairs. “The United States’ support of democracy is just a subterfuge and is all a show. It would be in Washington’s interest to abide by international law and to stop interfering in the internal affairs of other countries, “he said on Saturday. “Those objecting to Iran’s Election mechanism have Guantanamo prison and drones over the rural parts of Afghanistan and Pakistan as blemish on their face”"Those who use dubious money or the public money cannot win the public trust, “Ayatollah Khamenei said. Advising people who to choose their ideal candidate he said: “People vote for those that work for the national esteem, resistance against enemies and making Iran a model for world oppressed.” “The candidates’ slogans should be in order to consolidate the proud-making, proper and wise stances of the Islamic Republic regime.” Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Ayatollah Khamenei: Iran’s Presidential Election Has Become an International Issue Iran’s Leader Explains his Strategy Over Nuclear Issue, Direct Talk With U.S. Iran’s Ex-FM says Supreme Leader had Accepted a Plan to Solve the Nuclear Issue Tags: Ali Akbar Salehi, Ayatollah Khamenei, Guardian Council, headline, Iran Elections, John Kerry, Supreme Leader, USA
####Mar 8th, 2013####Iran’s Leader: Only Qualified Candidates Can Enter the 2013 Presidential Race####Iran’s supreme leader said on Thursday only those who pass The Guardian Council of Constitution assessment, will be able to become candidates in 2013 presidential election.   Ayatollah Khamenei called the presidential election in Iran one of the most standard and open elections in the world.   “Some try to portrait vetting in the election as a malfunction in the Islamic Republic. But this is a amateur and non-technical statement, because assessment of candidates and examining their merit is relevant in democracies around the world,” he said in a meeting with members of the Assembly of Experts.   He said the point of candidate assessment in the election is that only those who are qualified enough to the people for voting can enter.   “Members of the Guardian Council of Constitution should act according to sets of laws and at the end, those who were qualified enough can enter the presidential race.” He added.   He said people’s participation in the future election would be influential and added, “With God’s help and his almighty consideration, people will begin to take part as we get closer to the election day.   The eleventh election of the President of Iran is scheduled to be held on 14 June 2013 to elect the seventh President, successor of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who is barred from standing for a third term.   Mousavi and Karoubi, Ahmadinejad’s opponents in the 2009 election, claimed fraud in voting and refused to accept the outcome.   Their refusal and false claim resulted in months of crisis and detention of reformists leaders.  2013 presidential election is crucial since reformists and their supporters are trying to make a path for release of their leaders and take their chances in reaching power. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran political parties prepare for presidential elections Iran’s Leader Explains his Strategy Over Nuclear Issue, Direct Talk With U.S. US unable to attack Iran: Special adviser to Iran’s leader A Deeper Look At The Iranian Leader’s New Year’s Speech Tags: Assembly of Experts, Ayatollah Khamenei, featured, Iran Elections
####June 27th, 2013####Iran’s Leader Says The Country’s Nuclear Issue Can be Solved Easily####In a meeting with officials from the judiciary system, Iran’s leader once again praised the nation for their high turnout in the election, emphasizing that it foiled the enemy’s plots. Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei said the people’s trust and interest in the system brought them to the polls and disappointed the enemies who tried very hard to prevent them from voting. The leader also pointed to pre-election debates and said it was better if they had talked objectively about the services and works done by the current government instead of only criticizing.”Beside its weak points, the current government has many strong points too. And how good it was if the respectful candidates, besides talking about the government’s weak points, pointed to its significant services, infrastructure works, and constructions too.” He also demanded everyone to help the president-elect in his important responsibility. The nuclear issue was another point the leader referred to. “Several countries make the opposition front against Iran and they call themselves the global community. Their pertinacity has prevented the problem from being solved. If they stop their pertinacity Iran’s nuclear issue can be solved easily and simply.” Ayatollah Ali Khamenei stated that whenever the nuclear issue was reaching a solution the Americans set forth new allegations and used the issue to add to their pressure against the country. “In the nuclear issue, the Islamic Republic has acted legally and clearly and has a strong logic. But the enemies aim to continue their pressure and make the people fed up and change the regime. So they don’t let the solution be solved,” he said, adding, “Of course in their private talks and letters they say we don’t want to change the system but their actions show otherwise.” He further insisted that whoever resists in the right path is victorious. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Leader Explains his Strategy Over Nuclear Issue, Direct Talk With U.S. Iran’s Ex-FM says Supreme Leader had Accepted a Plan to Solve the Nuclear Issue Iran’s Deputy Nuclear Negotiator Reviews Past Mistakes in Negotiations A Deeper Look At The Iranian Leader’s New Year’s Speech Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, featured, headline, Iran Elections, Iran's Nuclear Program, Nuclear, USA
####June 27th, 2013####Iran’s Leader: Vote to Any of The Presidential Candidates is a Vote to The Islamic Republic####People listening to Iran’s leader Ayatollah Khamenei at the Mausoleum of Imam Khomeini. (Photo Credit: khamenei.ir) On the Commemoration of the 24th anniversary of the late founder of the Islamic Republic, Ayatollah Sayed Rohollah Mousavi Khomeini, Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei delivered an important speech to a gathering of millions at the Imam Khomeini’s Mausoleum. The leader of Iran explained Iran’s developments during the post revolution period and also talked about Iran’s June 14 presidential election. “Before the Islamic revolution in Iran, [the west] had dictated to us that we are not able to run our country and develop scientifically,” Ayatollah Khamenei said on June 4th. “Iran once extended her hands to foreign engineers for making roads, but today our youth make thousands of factories, dams, bridges and roads.” “Our country was run by the US and Britain’s policies. Corrupt leaders were ruling this country but after the 1979 revolution, people’s representatives came in to power,” he said. “We had not any scientific honor before the revolution, but now according to the international statistics, Iran’s growth rate in science and technology is 11 times more than the average growth of the world’s output.” Reiterating on the necessity of keeping on Imam Khomeini’s path, he said, the late founder of the Islamic Republic left a road map for Iran to continue its revolutionary path. “Imam Khomeni’s road map is his principals. The principals that could change an ashamed nation to a proud one,” Ayatollah Khamenei said. “Imam Khomeini’s path in the internal politics were relying on the people and providing unity and avoiding aristocracy. According to Imam’s principals, authorities should be devoted to the interests of the nation and try for development,” he said while trying to outline an acceptable approach for Iran’s administration. “On foreign policy, Imam’s behavior was [based on] standing against the domination policies [of the superpowers], [being] brotherly with Islamic nations, having relations will all countries but fighting against Zionism for the freedom of Palestine.” Iran’s high ranking officials sitting under a large banner of Imam Khomeini while the supreme leader Ayatollah Khamenei delivering a speech to the gathering.(Photo Credit: Fars) “On the economy, Imam Khomeini’s path is to rely on national economy, self-sufficiency, economic justice in production and distribution, denying capitalistic culture and respect for work and trying for independence in the national economy,” Iran’s leader said. Only 10 days to the election day, Iran’s leader explained the basic principles of the Islamic Republic in three main areas of domestic policy, foreign policy and economy. These three areas are the main subjects of the 8 presidential candidate’s debate and campaign speeches. All candidates trying to present their approach to the important issues of foreign policy like the long standing nuclear dispute with the West,  and interaction with the USA and the Palestinian cause. The economy of Iran is also affected by the US’ unilateral sanctions, so each of the presidential candidates proposes his solutions to reviving and developing the economy of the country. While some of the candidates from both principalists and reformist fronts suggest a better relation with the west as a solution to economic problems, others stress on the economy of resistance and avoiding capitalistic methods as the solution. “Any vote to any of the 8 candidates is a vote for the Islamic Republic and the mechanism of the elections,” Iran’s leader said. “Our poor enemies abroad want to create a threat [from the election] against the Islamic Republic while [the election] is an opportunity for us,” “The enemies hope Iran’s elections will be cold and they create another sedition like what they did in 2009,” Ayatollah Khamenei said. “But they are mistaken. They didn’t know our nation. They forgot the [pro-government] rally in December 30, 2009.” On December 30, 2009, millions of Iranian people participated in pro-government demonstrations took place in capital city of Tehran and all cities around the country to protest anti-government and anti-islamic demonstrations and violence following the 2009 presidential election. Observers called the main rally in the capital possibly the largest crowd in the streets of Tehran since Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini’s funeral in 1989. This demonstration was an end to the months of street violence and anti-government demonstrations. “Those who think there is a majority in the opposition in the Islamic Republic should remember the huge crowds of people who rallied on the 22nd of Bahman [mass rallies take place each year to mark the anniversary of the victory of the 1979 Islamic Revolution] and they shout Death To the USA,” Iran’s leader said. “The enemies’ think tanks are backing their media and political speakers to make lies and make Iran’s election atmosphere cold,” Ayatollah Khamenei said, “They say Iran’s election is not free and legal and is engineered. But they don’t know the Iranian nation, the government and its election [mechanism].” Iran’s leader then described Iran’s election mechanism as the most democratic and free mechanism in the world and criticized elections in the capitalist countries where only a few people dependent on the power and wealth sources, can enter the race. “Where in the world, [presidential] candidates are allowed to use national and government media freely and equally? Is it in the capitalist countries?” Ayatollah Khamenei asked. “In the capitalist countries, only those candidates who are backed by the [main] political parties and power and wealth mafia can campaign.” “The US elections endorse this idea. There were some candidates that had not supported Israel so they couldn’t enter the US election race,” Iran leader said. “But in our country all candidates freely and equally can talk with the people about different subjects.” “In American elections anyone opposing Zionism cannot run. But In Iran candidates can talk to the people without spending even a Rial.” He then denied reports of his support for a specific presidential candidate saying “I don’t endorse any one. I just say the facts and advise all candidates to speak fair and don’t deny the important achievements of the current and past administrations.” “There are economic problems, god willing the next president will be able to solve the problems,” Iran’s leader said and called the economy as the main issue of the country and the enemies are using it to pressure the people and government. “If the nation deals with its economy then the enemies will be defenseless when confronting Iran,” he said. “Candidates must not prefer foreigners’ interests to the people’s interests. Some think we should compromise to lessen the anger of the enemy. But this is wrong.” Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Iran’s Leader: Only Qualified Candidates Can Enter the 2013 Presidential Race Iran’s Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei Appreciates Law-abiding Disqualified Candidates Iran’s Elections: Vote Yes or No, Just Be Sure To Vote Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, featured, Imam khomeini, Iran Elections, Principalists, Reformists
####June 14th, 2013####Iranians Go To Polls As Leader Khamenei Urged High Turn Out####Iranians are going to the polls to elect their president. Almost 60,000 polling stations opened throughout Iran at 8:00, local time.   More than 200 foreign reporters from 40 countries have come to Iran since last week. The total number of foreign reporters  who are covering the election is over 400.   The candidate’s representatives are present in the election committee. Mostafa Mohammad Najjar, the Minister of Interior, said the ministry would investigate any violation reported by the representatives.   Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei Casts his vote in Iran’s eleventh Presidential Election. Many of the country’s top officials have already cast their votes with the Leader of the Islamic Republic being the first. He urged the nation to go to the polls early. In response to remarks by a American National Security Council official, the leader stated that the Iranian nation would not be influenced by such remarks and that they would act according to their own beliefs and needs.   Former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, also appeared in a polling station early. He hoped the election would result in solidarity among the nation and save the country from foreign and domestic threats. “Without political epic, economic epic would not happen”, he said.   Ayatollah Jannati who heads the Guardian Council was another top official to cast his vote. “One of the big mistakes that happened in 2009 was that some of the candidates announced themselves the winner before the announcement of the result and this led to the riot. In this round too if someone announces himself the winner before the results are clear he has betrayed the nation,” he said.   Mohammad Khatami, former president and the head of the reformists cast his vote and called on the candidates to be obedient to the rules of the country. “The candidate must be in service of Islam, and the country and its progress. Whether they win or lose, they should be obedient to the system.”     Some of the presidential candidates also have voted so far, including Hassan Rowhani, Mohammad Gharazi, Saeed Jalili, Gholam Ali Haddad Adel, and Mohammad baqer Qalibaf. “We should respect to the people’s votes,” Qalibaf said   Mohammad Reza Aref who quitted the race a few days ago, apologized to his supporters who gathered in the polling station where he voted. The supporters criticized him for withdrawing in favor of Rowhani.   “The whole world is now observing the Iranian people’s support for the system”, said Ali Larijani, the Speaker of the Parliament. He insisted that people’s votes would be safeguarded. Iran’s View have Live Presidential Election Coverage here. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Election: Poll Results Suggest a 50% turnout and A Run Off Voting Iran’s Leader, Ayatollah Khamenei Appreciates Law-abiding Disqualified Candidates Iran Election: Guardian Council Briefed Candidates While Adel Quits the Race Iran’s Leader Demanded Elections Authorities to Protect People’s Vote Tags: Ahmad Jannati, Ali Akbar Velayati, Ayatollah Khamenei, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, hassan Rowhani, Iran Elections, Mohammad Gharazi, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Saeed Jalili, Supreme Leader
####May 25th, 2013####Jalili To Continue Iran’s Policy of Exporting The Islamic Revolution####A woman holding a flyer reads “The Coalition of People + 1″ which refer to popularity of Iran’s top nuclear negotiator. first election campaign in Tehran on May 24,2013. (Photo Credit: Nasim) Presidential hopeful Saeed Jalili said in his first campaign speech on Friday that he will continue “Iran’s foreign policy of seeking to extend the influence of Islam in the world.” “Imam Khomeini’s discourse does not recognize any [super] power in the world,” he said. Jalili who believes in reordering the administrative structure of the Islamic Republic based on the discourse of the Islamic Revolution, added “We would be unfortunate if we did not rely on Islamic thoughts.” “Since the beginning of the 1979 Revolution, Iran’s enemies have tried to prevent the growth and formation of the Islamic revolution,” said the secretary of Iran’s National Security Council. Wearing a Chafiye, the symbol of Palestinian solidarity and a sign of the Basiji forces (People’s ideological committees and militias) in Iran, Jalili said: “Where the Basiji way of thinking is in effect, Iran’s greedy enemies are incapable of penetration.” Praising the discourse of the Basij he added, “Anyone who will be the president of this country should believe in this discourse and should implement the necessary programs to manifest the discourse.” Jalili have chosen his campaign slogan as “We Are Standing: Resistance the key of Development”, which is another reference to his believe in resistance against the west and world powers. his supporters also point to his style of negotiating with world powers in the nuclear talks with the so-called group of P5+1 (US, Britain, France, Russia, China and Germany) as a successful model of resistance for development. Ali Bagheri, undersecretary of the Iran’s National Security Council who was chosen as the head of Jalili’s campaign also delivered a speech to the crowd of supporters of Iran’s top nuclear negotiator (Jalili) in a sport’s stadium in Tehran. Saeed Jalili waving his hands to the crowd of his supporters during his first election campaign in Tehran on May 24,2013. (Photo Credit: Nasim) “A vote for Jalili is not a vote for an individual or an intelligent negotiator but is a vote to develop an Islamic Iran in this decade,” Bagheri said. “If jalili becomes president, all of our enemies will be disappointed,” he said. A number of political and cultural figures and MPs were present in this inauguration of Jalili’s campaign but the presence of Sayed Mohammad Hosseini, the minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s administration was interesting as president Ahmadinejad supports his top aide Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei who was disqualified to run for president by the Guardian Council. Ahmadinejad later said he will ask the supreme leader, Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei to reinstall Mashaei. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Jalili: Amputee Candidate Becoming Frontrunner in Presidential Race Iran’s Deputy Nuclear Negotiator Reviews Past Mistakes in Negotiations Mashaei Will Ask Ayatollah Khamenei And Ahmadinejad To Fix His Disqualification What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Tags: Ali Bagheri, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, featured, Guardian Council, headline, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Saeed Jalili, Sayed Mohammad Hosseini
####May 14th, 2013####Jalili’s Candidacy Will Not Affect Iran’s Nuclear Talks: FM Spokesman####Sayed Abbas Araghchi, Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman said Saeed Jalili’s run for president will not affect the process of nuclear talks with the group of P5+1 consisting five permanent member of security council and Germany. “Tomorrow Mr. Jalili will meet Catherine Ashton in Istanbul as a step of the negotiations,” Said Araghchi who is also the in a Press Conference in Tehran on Tuesday. Araghchi who is a member of Iranian nuclear negotiating team expressed hope that “Ashton gives Iran positive answers in her meeting [with Dr. Jalili] tomorrow and [the P5+1] have met Iran’s proposal in a constructive manner. “I believe the election generally will have some effects on the negotiations but none of Iran’s principal policies will change,” he said. The EU Foreign Policy Chief Catherine Ashton and Secretary of Iranian Supreme National Security Council Saeed Jalili will meet in Iran’s consulate in Istanbul on Wednesday. The talks come whereas Ashton was supposed to consult with the P5+1 foreign ministers and inform the group of Iran’s proposals, while Iran has received no response about its offers one month after talks in Almaty, Kazakhstan. Iran’s top nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili has registered to stand in the June 14 presidential election. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Second Day of Nuclear Talks held in Almaty (Updated) Iran’s Deputy Nuclear Negotiator Reviews Past Mistakes in Negotiations Iran’s Negotiator Complains About the ‘Lack of Authority of the P5+1 Delegates’ ‘Iran will reject P5+1 offer if it is not credible’ Tags: Catherine Ashton, headline, Iran's Nuclear Program, Saeed Jalili, Sayed Abbas Araghchi
####June 7th, 2013####Khatami Trying To Unify Reformists Behind Aref####Presidential Candidate Mohammad Reza Aref (left), former Iranian president, Mohammad Khatami (Right). Only one week to the Iran’s first presidential election since the 2009 election which president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad won causing street unrest, currently all private polls by Iran’s intelligence ministry, Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting organization and some other governmental organizations show Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, Ali Akbar Velayati and Saeed Jalili all Principalists respectively will have the most votes. So Hasan Rowhani and Mohammad Reza Aref two reformist candidates, cannot even enter the run off round if the reformists don’t agree on a single candidate to stay in the race. Unofficial but reliable polls either by governmental institutes or private institutes show each of the two reformist candidates can gain almost 8% of ballots, while Ghalibaf would win about 30% of ballots and Velayati and Jalili each have about 11% of votes. Mohammad Reza Aref Vice President under Mohammad Khatami’s administration said several times during the last two weeks that he will “stay till the end” and he does not recognize Rowhani who is an envoy of Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei in Iran’s National Security Council as a reformist. But Rowhani’s campaign manager Mohammad Reza Nematzadeh said on Thursday that both Aref and Rowhani welcome a coalition and they are working on that. On the same day Sayed Hadi Khamenei a prominent reformist figure and a key member of the reformist Association of Combatant Clerics said Mohammad Reza Aref is the representative of all reformists. “Hassan Rowhani is not a reformist. The Council for Coordinating the Reformist Front supports Aref,” he said during the inauguration of Aref’s campaign headquarters in the city of Chanaran.   Aref’s spokesman complains about Rowhani’s refrain from accepting the decision to unify behind Aref  Although an interview with Hasan Rasooli (a deputy of Mohammad Reza Aref) with Iran’sView on Thursday shows some developments in the reformist’s front. “Reformists will gain a better result if Dr. Aref and Dr. Rowhani agree on a mechanism initiated by Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami to determine a single candidate to remain in the race,” said Hasan Rasooli in an exclusive interview with Iran’sView. Rasooli said Mohammad Khatami a key leader of the reformist front is trying to form a coalition. The spokesman of Aref said the Reformist presidential candidate will welcome Khatami’s decision but he expects the decision to not be affected by “unreal inductions”. “If Mr. Rowhani and his campaigners have more cooperation, we can reach a better result for the coalition,” this mild complaint from Rasooli can be a sign of Rowhani’s refrain from accepting the reformist leaders’ decision which seems to be a consensus on Aref as the candidate of the reformists. Mohammad Khatami has a close relation with Aref, former vice president under Khatami’s administration. Aref also could gain a better result in polls compared to Rowhani. Mohammad Khatami (left) – Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani (Right) – (Photo Credit: Fars News Agency) On the other hand, Hashemi Rafsanjani a former two-term president of Iran and a powerful figure close to the reformists is closer to Hasan Rowhani. but Rowhani’s record as Iran’s top nuclear negotiator in talks with three European countries (Britain, France and Germany) which resulted in suspending all Iran’s nuclear activities is a weakness point of him that brings most attacks and critics of the Principalists. This difference between the two most prominent reformist leaders maybe made the decision making more difficult. ” “Anyways, Hashemi Rafsanjani and Khatami both will publicly support the final candidate of the reformists,” Aref’s deputy said in an exclusive interview with Iran’sView. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball Iran’s Election: Poll Results Suggest a 50% turnout and A Run Off Voting Iran’s Election: Principalists In Disarray After Hashemi Disqualified Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, Association of Combatant Clerics, Council for Coordinating the Reformist Front, Hasan Rasooli, Hashemi Rafsanjani, hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, Mohammad Khatami, Mohammad Reza Nematzadeh, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Principalists, Reformists, Saeed Jalili, Sayed Hadi Khamenei
####May 20th, 2013####Lankarani Withdraws to Make Jalili the Frontrunner for Principalist Candidate####Iran’s presidential hopeful, Kamran Bagheri Lankarani withdrew in favor of Saeed Jalili, the secretary of Iran’s National Security Council. Saeed Jalili and Kamran Bagheri Lankarani two principalist presidential candidate met this afternoon in Jalili’s office. After the meeting, Lankarani, who is backed by Ayatollah Mohammad-Taghi Mesbah-Yazdi, issued a statement calling for unity between principalist candidates. After Iran’s top nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili registered for the upcoming Iran’s presidential election, Lankarani said in an interview that there is no difference between their stance and only one of them will stay in the presidential race. Political analysts believe that the principlist candidates will show more unity to boost their chance of winning the race. Afkar, a news website close to Alireza Zakani, a pricipalist presidential hopeful also reported that he likely will withdraw in favor of Jalili tomorrow. Ali-Akbar Velayati and Gholam-Ali Hadad Adel, two presidential hopeful and members of Coalition of 2+1 Iran’s presidential hopeful also said after Jalili’s registration that it is likely for the principlist candidates to unite around the country’s chief nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, in the upcoming presidential election. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Jalili: Amputee Candidate Becoming Frontrunner in Presidential Race What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Iran’s Deputy Nuclear Negotiator Reviews Past Mistakes in Negotiations Iran’s Guardian Council Hinted at Hashemi Rafsanjani’s Disapproval Tags: 2+1 coalition, Ali Akbar Velayati, Ayatollah Mesbah Yazdi, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, headline, Iran Elections, Kamran Bagheri Lankarani, Saeed Jalili
####June 15th, 2013####Latest Iran Election Info: 80% Turn Out Moderate Rowhani Leading With 50%####Iran’s Presidential Election officially ended late Saturday. An 80% turn out is estimated. Vote counting still continuing. Stay Updated Here With Live Iranian Election Coverage! According to the latest official results announced by Iran’s Interior Ministry with 23,014,873 ballots counted so far, the moderate cleric Hassan Rowhani is leading with 11,754,013 votes which is 51.07% of the counted votes followed by Tehran’s Mayor Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf with 3,494,938 which is 15.19% of the counted votes. If a candidate wins over 50 percent of the vote in the first round, he will replace the incumbent President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Otherwise a run-off will be held in a week’s time to determine a final winner in the race. The former head of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard is in third place with 1,518,964 votes, closely followed by the secretary of Iran’s National Security Council, Saeed Jalili with 1,400,712 votes.   Ali Akbar Velayati a former Foreign Minister and an advisor to Iran’s Supreme Leader with 729,044 votes and former Oil Minister of the country Sayed Mohammad Gharazi with 143,301 votes are on the bottom of the list.   Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei said on Wednesday a high turn-out in the presidential election is more important than anything else.   “My expectation from our dear people is that they participate [in the elections],” He said shortly after casting his vote on Friday.   “Enemies are trying to discourage people from voting,” he added.   Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf and Ali Akbar Velayati issued statements shortly after voting ended and thanked the Iranian nation for their participation in Iran’s election.   Hassan Rouhani’s campaign also issued a similar statement praising people’s high turn-out in Iran’s eleventh Presidential Election. Former two-term President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani who backed Rowhani in the elections issued a statement on Saturday calling Iran’s elections, the most democratic elections in the world. “Iranians demonstrated their ignorance to foreign and domestic propaganda. Our enemies should confess that Iran has the most democratic election in the world and they can’t cast doubts on results,” the statement read. He also appreciated the “Elections authorities” for the perfect conduct of the elections. “The Tsunami of the Iranian nation beat the White House,” said Mohammad Reza Naghdi the commander of the Basij force (People’s Militia). “The High turn-out in the Iranian election proves the trust of the people to the Islamic establishment.”   Who is Hassan Rowhani (The overwhelming frontrunner)?   Hassan Rowhani entered Iran’s parliament in 1981, and remained an MP for 5 Parliamentary sessions, he was the deputy speaker in the fourth and fifth parliaments which were among the most fundamentalist parliaments in the Islamic Republic and in which the reformist were under much pressure.   He has been the Supreme Leader’s representative to Iran’s Supreme National Security Council since its establishment.   He has been a member of the Assembly of Experts since 1999 and member of the Islamic Republic of Iran’s Expediency Council since 1991.   Rowhani is also a member of the fundamentalist ” Combatant Clergy Association”,  ( Jame’e-ye Rowhaniyat-e Mobarez). Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Hassan Rowhani Elected As Iran’s New President Iranians Go To Polls As Leader Khamenei Urged High Turn Out Iran’s Election: Poll Results Suggest a 50% turnout and A Run Off Voting Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, hassan Rowhani, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Mohammad Gharazi, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohsen Rezaee, Mohsen Rezaei, Saeed Jalili, Supreme Leader
####May 15th, 2013####Latest on Iran Election: 7-8 Candidate Will Be Qualified; MPs Urged Rejection of Rafsanjani####IRGC hold a drill to practice tactics of street riots on May 15,2013. (Photo Credit: BasijPress) Iran Will Foil Enemy Plots: Minister of Intelligence Iran’s Minister of Intelligence said on Wednesday that “[Iran enemies] have plans about Iran upcoming presidential election but we will foil enemy plots.” “All [in the Intelligence Ministry] are prepared to counter enemy’s plans [to sabotage iran election],” he said stressing that “most of the plans are in media.” Two Battalions of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards hold a drill on Tuesday to practice tactics of street riots. 100 MPs Urged Rejection of Hashemi Rafsanjani 100 MPs signed a plea, asking Iran’s Guardian Council to reject Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani candidacy; citing him indirectly supporting the “sedition leaders” during 2009 post-election unrests.   Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, left, and his close ally Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei flash victory signs, as they arrive at the election headquarters of the interior ministry for registering of Rahim Mashaei for the upcoming presidential election, in Tehran, Iran, Saturday, May 11, 2013.(Photo Credit: Ebrahim Noroozi/AP) Ahmadinejad: Let Everyone Take Part in the Election President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad talking to journalists asked the Guardian Council to “let the different political orientation to take part in the election and people would cast their votes.” Ahmadinejad is supporting his controversial adviser, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei in the upcoming presidential election. Mashaei’s chance of being disqualified by the Guardian Council is very high due to his non-Islamic remarks.   Only 7-8 Candidate Will Be Permitted: Member of the Guardian Council Ayatollah Mohammad Yazdi, a member of the Guardian Council said today that only “7 or 8 presidential candidates will be approved.” “Most of the candidates will be disqualified because they lack enough management experience,” he said during his class on religion. 686 candidates registered in Iranian presidential election. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Government Spokesman Complicates Ahmadinejad’s Election Plan Ahmadinejad’s Plans for the Presidential Election Iran’s Elections: Vote Yes or No, Just Be Sure To Vote Ayatollah Khamenei: Iran’s Presidential Election Has Become an International Issue Tags: Ayatollah Mohammad Yazdi, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, headline, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Majlis
####April 25th, 2013####Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball####From Left to Right: Mohmmad Reza Aref, Gholamali Hadad-Adel, Ali Akbar Velyati, Ali Akbar Nategh-Nori Six months after the 10th Presidential Election, the dust had settled and Tehran was calm after a period of unrest. The opposition didn’t reach their goal to cancel the election. It was clear that Iran’s 11th Presidential Election will be a significant one. In 2009, various opposition groups from inside and outside of Iran, formed the opposition coalition, with the majority of them being the so called “Reformists”. Reformists views are closer to those of Western countries and despite the “Pricipalists” ideology (which is Islam first), they imagine that Western culture and politics, can be embedded in Islamic ideology with a few modifications. After the 10th Presidential Election, the opposition claimed fraud in the voting and this went on for months. [Just as the opposition in Venezuela is now doing (perhaps the same paymasters)] Senior Iranian officials offered legal ways to pursue the legitimacy of the votes through the Guardian Council, but they refused and the Supreme Leader accused them of trying to topple the government. The accusation was made once the majority of the opposition stopped street protests. Accordingly, In the eyes of Iranian officials, only those opposition leaders which continued to pursue an incitement to protest were accused that they were acting in collusion with Iran’s enemies, meaning the US and Israel. In spite of requests from Iranian officials, the Leaders of the Reformist movements defended their acts of 2009. The dissension between Reformists and the government led to a belief in public opinion that they won’t take part in the 11th Presidential Election; Because they think the Islamic Republic was not a worthy entity for the people’s vote. But political observers have witnessed statements from Reformist activists citing the importance of being a part of these Presidential Elections. Four Reformists have declared their candidacy so far; even though most of the activists insist on Khatami’s candidacy. Iran’s Former President (1997-2001), Muhammad Khatami was among the opposition leaders of 2009. He didn’t condemn the acts in 2009 against the Islamic Republic and was on the same dangerous path as Mir Hussein Mousavi and Mahdi Karroubi. According to security officials, since January 2011, Mousavi and Karroubi were under 24/7 surveillance so that they would not attempt any revolt. Muhammad Reza Aref declared his candidacy on behalf of Muhammad Khatami, because Khatami’s supporters  suggest he won’t he wont run in the elections. We can conclude that the majority of the Reformist groups are confused. They don’t know whether Khatami will enter the controversial Presidential race or if he will try to defend his acts in the past. Because Iranian officials claim that if Khatami insisted that his 2009 stance was correct then this could be interpreted as an act of treason and such a person does not merit to be the President. Based on these facts, some activists say that if Khatami doesn’t pledge loyalty to Iran’s leader and the revolution, he won’t pass the vetting process. The Iranian constitution demands that the Guardian Council examines the qualifications of any candidate. Khatami, who’s chance of candidacy is very low, said that he doesn’t want to be rejected by an Islamic Republic establishment, meaning the Guardian Council. Despite the objection from some of the reformists, those close to Khatami are trying to convince him to become a candidate. But they say that if he doesn’t take a step, Ali Akbar Hashemi, a former Iranian President would be a good replacement. Mohsen Hashemi, his older son said there are many pressures for his father’s candidacy, and he encourages his father to take the plunge. Hashemi himself didn’t show a willingness to be a candidate but has said that he will support the final winner. The fragmentation among the reformists didn’t impact moderate members of the movement like Hasan Rohani, Chief of the Supreme National Security Council in the Khatami administration, Mostafa Kavakebian, Head of the Mardom Salari party and Muhammad Shariatmadari, Minister of Commerce in Khatami’s administration have declared candidacy and have even began their campaigns. Developments at the Principalists front are totally different. They have come up with more than 10 candidates and it is expected that there will be more before the vetting process begins on the 14th May. Here is a list of Principalists’ declared candidates: 1-   Mohsen Rezaee, Former Chief Commander of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps and currently the Secretary of the Expediency Discernment Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran 2-   Alireza Zakani, member of the Iran’s Majlis (Parliament). 3-   Ali Fallahian, Minister of Intelligence in the cabinet of President Hashemi Rafsanjani from 1989 to 1997. 4-   Kamran Bagheri Lankarani, Minister of Health and Medical Education in the first cabinet of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. 5-   Gholam Ali Haddad-Adel, former chairman of the Iranian Majlis. 6-   Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, the current mayor of Tehran and a candidate in the Iranian presidential election of 2005. 7-   Ali Akbar Velayati, the foreign minister of Iran from 1981 to 1997. Currently he is an advisor on International Affairs to the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei. 8-   Yahya Al-Eshagh, Minister of Commerce under Cabinet of President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani (1989–1997) 9-   Mohammad-Reza Bahonar, The First deputy of the Majlis speaker. 10- Seyyed Mohammad-Hassan Aboutorabi-Fard, The second deputy of the Majlis speaker. 11- Mostafa Pour-Mohammadi, Minister of the Interior of Iran (2005-2008). 12- Manouchehr Mottaki, Minister of Foreign Affairs (2005- 2010). Yet some of these candidates have made coalitions to beat their opponents. They’ll remain united until the public through surveys shows a preference for one final candidate and then the others in the coalition should support him. “Pishraft” coalition is the most significant one, consisting of Ali Akbar Velayati, Gholamali Haddad Adel and Muhammad Bagher Ghablibaf. Each one of them are trying to attract more attention and raise their chance of victory against the two others in the coalition. Seyef Muhammad Hassan Abutorabifard, Muhammad Reza Bahonar, Yahya Al-eshagh, Mustafa Pourmohammadi and Manuchehr Mottaki form another notable coalition called “Coalition of the Majority of Pricipalists”. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran political parties prepare for presidential elections What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Iran’s Elections: Vote Yes or No, Just Be Sure To Vote Iran’s Election: Poll Results Suggest a 50% turnout and A Run Off Voting Tags: Ali Akbar Nategh-Nori, Ali Akbar Salehi, Ali Akbar Velayati, Ali Fallahian, Ali Larijani, Alireza Zakani, Ayatollah Khamenei, featured, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, headline, Iran Elections, Kamran Bagheri Lankarani, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Manouchehr Mottaki, Minister, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohammad-Reza Bahonar, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Mohsen Rezaee, Mohsen Rezaei, Mostafa Pour-Mohammadi, Saeed Jalili, Supreme Leader, Yahya Al-Eshagh
####May 9th, 2013####Mashaee Will Run For President####Bahman Sharifzade a cleric close close to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s top aide, Esfandiar Rahim-Mashaee, said Mahaee will register for presidential election on Saturday which is last day of Candidate registration for the presidential election. “Mashaee has more than 40% of votes and all of parties, from reformists to principalists admitted to his popularity,” Sharifzadeh said in an interview with reformist Shargh newspaper. Mashaee was labeled by Principalists as part of a “deviant current” that critics say seeks to undermine Islamic rule in Iran. Given to Mashaee’s controversial remarks in recent years, the conventional wisdom is that he will be denied entrance to the Presidential race by the Guardian Council. “There is no reason for denying Mashaee to enter to the Presidential Election,” Sharifzadeh said. Mashaee who was the Chief of Staff in Ahmadinejad’s administration, left the office as Ahmadinejad suggested and became the head of the Non Aligned Movement Secretariat. Then Ahmadinejad began a speaking tour around Iran in the beginning of the new Iranian year and Mashaee was present at each step.   Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Government Spokesman Complicates Ahmadinejad’s Election Plan Ahmadinejad’s Plans for the Presidential Election Mashaei Will Ask Ayatollah Khamenei And Ahmadinejad To Fix His Disqualification Hashemi Will Not Oppose His Disqualification By The Guardian Council: Campaign’s Spokesman Tags: Bahman Sharifzadeh, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Mashaee, Mashaei
####May 22nd, 2013####Mashaei Will Ask Ayatollah Khamenei And Ahmadinejad To Fix His Disqualification####Ahmadinejad’s top aide Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei who his candidacy for presidential election denied by Iran’s Guardian Council says he will ask the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei to help him back in the presidential race. Mashaee paying respect to Ayatollah Khamenei during a meeting of Cabinet with the Supreme Leader. (Photo Credit: Khamenei.ir) “I think my disqualification is injustice and I will follow-up with the supreme leader to solve this,” Mashaei said in an interview with Fars news agency. Mahaei’s campaign also issued a statement on his disqualification asking Ayatollah Khamenei to “prevent violation of the nation’s principal rights.” “We also ask the president Ahamadinejad to use his position to fix any possible violation over this issue,” the statement read. Mashaei’s chance of being disqualified by the Guardian Council was very high due to his non-Islamic remarks. He also made controversial statements about “the end of the Islamic Era”. “The Islamic Era is over; we began the revolution in 1979 to promote our ideas to other countries, but I should say that the Islamic Era is over; this doesn’t mean that clinging to Islamic ideas will vanish, but the Era is over. Like the Era of horse riding is over, but we still have horses and horse riding and the Era of cars will come to an end, but there will still be cars and driving.” He said. Mashaee was accused in 2011 to be part of a big banking embezzlement. One of the main suspects confessed to his hidden meeting with Mashaee. Thus far neither Mashaee, nor the administration has commented on the matter. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Ahmadinejad’s Plans for the Presidential Election Ayatollah Khamenei: Iran’s Presidential Election Has Become an International Issue Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Iran’s Elections: Vote Yes or No, Just Be Sure To Vote Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, headline, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Supreme Leader
####June 14th, 2013####Nasrallah Congratulates Elections To Iranian Nation, Hoped For Similar Democracy in Arab States####Sayed Hassan Nasrallah, the Secretary General of Hezbollah, congratulated the leadership and the nation of Iran for the significant election and high turnout. “I want to congratulate Imam Khamenei and the Iranian nation for this festival of democracy, because this democracy strengthens the right positions in the region,” he said. “In this democracy, the Guardian Jurist [vali faqih or Ayatollah Khamenei] with all his powers has only one vote and other Iranian citizens of different ethnicities are also at the same level and participate in the election for [making] the future of their country.” Nasrallah referred to lack of democracy in Arab countries in the region. “I hope we witness similar democracy in some Arab countries too.” Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Leader Demanded Elections Authorities to Protect People’s Vote Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Iran’s Leader Gives Election Indicators, Slams US Interference Iranians Go To Polls As Leader Khamenei Urged High Turn Out Tags: Ayatollah Khamenei, Iran Elections, Sayed Hassan Nasrallah, Supreme Leader
####May 31st, 2013####Iran’s Election: Poll Results Suggest a 50% turnout and A Run Off Voting####File photo shows people casting their votes in Iran’s 10th presidential election, June 2009. An analysis based on the results of three surveys conducted by three reliable Iranian polling centers shows that none of Iran’s presidential candidates would gain enough votes to win outright on the first ballot. More than 50 million Iranians will head to the polls on June 14th to determine Iran’s next president. Iran’s Guardian Council has approved eight candidates to compete in the poll. If no candidate wins more than 50% of the vote a runoff is scheduled to be held a week later. According to the Analysis seen by Iran’sView, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, mayor of Tehran and a Principalist candidate, would win almost 27% of the votes and would be one of two competitors in any run off and the second competitor would be either Saeed Jalili, Iran’s top nuclear negotiator or Ali Akbar Velayati a top advisor to the country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei. 11.7% of voters surveyed decided to vote in favor of Saeed Jalili and 11.3% for Ali Akbar Velayati, both Principalist candidates. A similar survey conducted in the 2009 presidential elections gave accurate results. This poll was carried out in late April on more than 400,000 people in 31 provinces throughout Iran. More than 51% of eligible voters have decided to participate in the presidential elections. One out of five voters surveyed said they chose not to participate in the elections. More than 56% of voters said they will vote for one of the four Principalist candidates. Beside, Ghalibaf, Jalili and Velayati,  Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, another Principalist candidate would gain 6.7%, Mohsen Rezaei and  Mohammad Gharazi two independent candidates would have respectively 6.7% and 0.7% of the ballots. Of Iran’s two candidates in the Reformists camp 5.6% of voters surveyed said they would vote for Mohammad Reza Aref and 3.1% would vote for Hassan Rowhani.  Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the former two-term president of Iran was the most popular candidate associated with the reformists but he was disqualified by Iran’s Guardian Council due to his old age and therefore his inability to take the responsibility of being president. The results of the surveys have not been publicized so far, but Iran’sView received an analysis paper based on the three reliable surveys. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Election: Principalists In Disarray After Hashemi Disqualified What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? Breaking: Iran’s Interior Ministry Announced List of Qualified Presidential Candidates Subsidies Are A Hot Election Issue In Iran Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, featured, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, Mohammad Gharazi, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Mohsen Rezaei, Principalists, Reformists, Saeed Jalili
####May 14th, 2013####Senior Iranian Commander Warns About “Replacing Election With a Crisis”####“The US, Israel, Deviant Circle and the seditionists will challenge Iran’s election if they find a chance,” Deputy Chief of Staff of Iran’s Armed Forces Brigadier General Masoud Jazayeri said in an exclusive interview with Iran’sView on Tuesday. “They will try to replace the [presidential] election with a crisis,” he said. The Iranian leadership labeled those reformists who supported the allegations that Mahmoud Ahmadinejad won the 2009 election through fraud, as “seditionists”. The government critics also call the Ahmadinejad’s top adviser  Esfandiar Rahim-Mashaei and his circle as the “Deviant Current” who are deviated from the real path of the Islamic Republic.   Jazayeri underlined the possibility of a new sedition would be created by the “leaders of sedition”, United States and Israel and asked political authorities to be cautious.    “Some internal elements are seeking compromise with enemies led by US and want to appease to their excessive demands,” said Brigadier General Masoud Jazayeri in an interview with Iran’sView adding, “But the majority of Iranians does not agree with those elements and will confront them.”  “Superpowers and specially US were in confrontation with Iran,” Jazayeri said. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Senior Palestinian Leader Says Hamas is Neutral in Syrian Crisis IRGC Style Corps Will be Established in Syria, Says Top Iranian Military Commander Iran’s Government Spokesman Complicates Ahmadinejad’s Election Plan Has the Road to a Political Solution for the Palestinian Crisis Reached a Dead-end? Tags: Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, Iran Elections, Israel, Israel USA, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Masoud Jazayeri, USA
####May 14th, 2013####Subsidies Are A Hot Election Issue In Iran####September 2010, when Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced the first steps of a subsidy targeting plan through the state TV, he never have guessed that in less than 2 years, he would be inundated with censure. Critics accuse him of not carrying out the reforms in the right way. They claim that he was oblivious to the laws passed by the Majlis and instead has put his own ideas into action. His actions resulted in high inflation, weakening of domestic producers and destabilizing the market. Subsidy targeting is part of a five step, “Subsidy Reform Plan” in Iran.  According to the 2010 act of the Majlis, the government could gain revenue of billions of Rials by canceling subsidies for energy carriers and essential goods. According to the Majlis’ laws the government should have given 50% of the revenue to the people. 30% should have been given to the producers and the rest would have been for the government expenses. Most of the critics are targeting this issue. Critics are mostly supporters of the program, but they say the government gave the producers’ share to the people to raise the given cash subsidy. Products have subsequently become more expensive, because of the increased cost of transportation. Those who couldn’t afford it laid off workers and canceled productions. The Government has been blamed for being the main reason for inflation, unemployment and impairing the domestic producers. Accordingly the next phase of the subsidies which was supposed to come into action this year is still pending.   This has caused a debate among the upcoming Presidential candidates on how they are going to improve living conditions and finish the job of implementing subsidies: Mohsen Rezaee, the Secretary of the Expediency Discernment Council and a candidate commented on this matter: I’m totally in favor of subsidy reforms. He even promised to raise the given cash subsidy 2.5 times.   Ali Akbar Velayati, a candidate from the so called “Advancement” or “2+1” coalition thinks differently: Every administration is obliged to continue the subsidies but only those with low income should receive the cash subsidy. We can exclude the well off from receiving it and put it into long term investments and fund the country’s economy.   Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf, Tehran’s mayor and a Principalist candidate believes that the Reform Act is not implemented correctly. But it is a vital necessity that should be continued.   Ghoal Ali Hadad-Adel thinks like his other Principalist friends. He believes that not allocating the subsidy to domestic production has caused serious problems. He also said that the given subsidy cash should be raised considerably.   Kamran Bagheri Lankarani and Alireza Zakani are among the anti-west figures. Lankarani said, he would continue subsidies, keeping a close eye on low income people and limiting the impact it has on the inflation.   Zakani suggested a 7-step program to implement the subsidies. He said we should know the target social group  because now the cash subsidy is distributed among the rich and poor evenly which is not equitable.   Reformists criticize the government on subsidy reforms. Muhammad Reza Aref, (VP in Khatami administration), Hasan Rowhani (head of the Center for Strategic Research), Mustafa Kavakebian (MP) and Masoud Pezeshkian (minister in Hashemi administration) are the best known Reformist candidates. But considering Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani’s candidacy they are likely to step aside in favor of him.   Hashemi hardly criticizes the Ahmadinejad administration on subsidy reforms and said subsidies should have strengthened producers and improved the country’s economy and agriculture. Instead it has caused inflation and devalued the national currency by giving money to the people. Hashemi’s critics say he believes in the Capitalist model as he did in his 8 year presidency.   Esfandiar Rahim Mashaee thinks very differently on the issue. This controversial figure is considered a candidate supported by the government.  He said I feel it’s my duty to continue Ahmadinejad’s policies. He believes the implemented first step of subsidies had no negative consequences and the government was successful in controlling the inflation.   The conclusion As we see different views among political parties and different individuals, implementing subsidies and the amount and distribution of cash subsidies will change unless Ahmadinejad’s protégé is elected.   Most of the government critics say it’s very likely that the producers and the low income people will receive a better portion of the cash subsidies. The anti-Iran sanctions could have a direct impact on implementing the subsidies. Yet this may change according to the final winner’s view towards the West. We should wait and see that which candidate, with what political and economic proposals will win. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy Ahmadinejad’s Plans for the Presidential Election Iran political parties prepare for presidential elections Tags: Alireza Zakani, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, featured, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Hashemi Rafsanjani, hassan Rowhani, Iran Elections, Kamran Bagheri Lankarani, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Majlis, Masoud Pezeshkian, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Mohsen Rezaei, Mostafa Kavakebian, Saeed Jalili, Subsidy reform plan
####June 11th, 2013####Unified Iranian Reformists Behind Rowhani The Worst News For Principalists####Presidential Candidate Mohammad Reza Aref (left), former Iranian president, Mohammad Khatami (Right). Mohammad Reza Aref a reformist candidate in Iran’s upcoming presidential election announced his quit from the race in favor of the presidential candidate Hasan Rowhani who is strongly backed by Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. “I quit from the election race because Mr. Khatami advised me to do so,” a statement of Aref published in his website read. “Mr. Aref will abide by any decision taken by Mohammad Katami,” said Hasan Rasouli, Aref’s spokesman in an interview with Iran’s View on Monday. “The Advisory Council of the Reformists headed by Mohammad Khatami was in charge of choosing a single candidate for the party,” he said. Meanwhile Mohammad Reza Aref has repeatedly said he “will stand in the election race till the end.” He has even sworn this morning to not quit the race. A few days ago his spokesperson told Iran’s View that Reformists chose Aref as the candidate for the party. But it seems Hasan Rowhani and his supporters were successful to make Aref quit the race. Hasan Rowhani a former secretary of Iran’s National Security Council and currently an envoy to the supreme leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei on the council is backed by Hashemi Rafsanjani the former two-term president of the country. Aref is backed by the former president Mohammad Khatami who is a leader of the Iranian reformists. In recent weeks the Reformists front witnessed hot debates between Khatami and Rafsanjani on choosing a single candidate for the Reformists in the presidential election. Aref didn’t even recognize Rowhani as a reformist. Rowhani once during Khatami’s presidency signed a letter that conservatives wrote against him. In other hand, Khatami and his inner circle believe Rowhani would prefer Hashemi’s interests to the reformists’ approaches. Anyway the Reformists’ success to have a single candidate is the worst news for the Principalists who have three candidates for the presidential election. Hassan Rohani: I’ve very motivated for candidacy. You should ask Hashemi Whether he will support me or not. I’m not aware of Hashemi’s candidacy in the last days of the registration. My fans have chosen “Purple” as the color for the election campaign. The Principalists failed to form a coalition and choose a single candidate so far. Although Gholam Ali Hadad Adel quit the race on Monday in favor of “all principalists” but given his low performance in the different polls it will not help the Principalists to compete against a strong reformist rival. The three Principalist candidates who are unlikely to quit in favor of each other are: Saeed Jalili Iran’s top nuclear negotiator, Tehran’s mayor Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf and former foriegn minister Ali Akbar Velayati According to the polls and latest analysis after the withdrawal of Aref, Hasan Rowhani will have more than 20% of the ballot and will be competing with the Principalists’ front-runner Ghalibaf who has about 25% of the ballot. Political observers in Tehran believe if the Principalists fail to form a coalition, Hasan Rowhani will attract a significant percent of the votes and will compete against Ghalibaf in the run-off round. Iranians will cast their votes in the presidential election on Friday June 14th. A run-off round is expected as none of six remaining candidates are likely to gain 50% of ballots in polls. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Khatami Trying To Unify Reformists Behind Aref How Did The Fundementalist Rowhani Become The Reformists’ Ultimate Candidate? What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified? In Photos: Supporters of Iranian Presidential Candidates Street Campaigning Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Hasan Rasooli, Hashemi Rafsanjani, hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, jalil, Mohammad Khatami, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Principalists, Reformists
####June 14th, 2013####What Did The Iranian Presidential Candidates Said After Casting Their Votes?####Saeed Jalili Casting his vote in a polling station in holy shrine of Abulazim, south of Tehran. Saeed Jalili: “Everybody must respect whoever the people elect…I ask all the people and supporters of candidates to help create the political epic.” Mohsen Rezaee Casting his vote. Mohsen Rezaei: “I have come here to say people are our main concern, that’s why I came to cast my vote. I will thank the Iranian nation for whatever decision they make today… My way is the continuation of the way of my martyred brothers.” Reformist presidential candidate Hassan Rowhani Casting his vote in a polling station in holy shrine of Abulazim, south of Tehran. Hassan Rowhani: if the people create a great epic today on july 14, july 15 will be the victory day for the Iranian nation and not a particular candidate… the owner of this country is the nation. The country is theirs and their right… We are witnessing a higher turnout in this election. Presidential candidate Sayed Mohammad Gharazi Casting his vote. Mohammad Gharazi: Today is the day of Resurrection for the revolution and the election. The enemy has sheathed its sword… what organizes the election are the votes of the people. I will accept whatever the Interior Ministry, the Guardian Council, and the nation say. I have told the guardian council in a letter that I will not have representatives because I fully trust their staff. Presidential candidate Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf Casting his vote in a polling station in holy shrine of Abulazim, south of Tehran. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf:”Certainly only one of the candidates will be elected and people’s choice will be the best their votes will be respected… I want to make fundamental and basic changes in the area of progress and justice.” Ali Akbar Velayati Casting his vote in Iran’s Presidential and City Councils Elections. Ali Akbar Velayati: “What is most important is the people’s turnout and electing the best candidate… people should rush to the polls… Whoever people vote for will be respected by all of us.” Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: In Photos: Iran’s Presidential Candidates Casting Their Votes In Photos: Supporters of Iranian Presidential Candidates Street Campaigning Hassan Rowhani Elected As Iran’s New President Iranians Go To Polls As Leader Khamenei Urged High Turn Out Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, Mohammad Gharazi, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohsen Rezaee, Saeed Jalili
####May 10th, 2013####What if Iran’s Next President is a Reformist?####Mohammad Khatami (left) – Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani (Right) – (Photo Credit: Fars News Agency) What are the reformists’ plans to solve 10 years of dissent on the nuclear issue? How do they perceive negotiations with the US? Could would-be candidates concur with senior officials in the Islamic Republic and the Supreme Leader? Is Iran’s approach to the US likely to change? These questions are very important because of what the US is doing in the region and the difficult economic situation in Iran. US interests in Iran have a knock on effect on countries like Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Lebanon and Bahrain. So these countries’ futures are also at stake. If and when the US acknowledges Iran’s right to enrich uranium, the UK, France and Germany would follow. China and Russia are already much softer with Iran. So the US’ green light would end political, economic, medicine and media sanctions against Iran. A series of sanctions from the US and its European allies have generated cynicism among the Iranian people towards the West. They cherish their independence and reputation and to them it’s even more important than their wages. The Reformist candidates claim they have a breakthrough plan to come to an accord on the nuclear issue.   Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani After Khatami’s refusal to become a candidate, the chance of Hashemi’s candidacy is increasing. He was both Iran’s president and the speaker of the Parliament. However, those close to him ruled out his candidacy, but his daughter confirmed he will become a candidate. Reformists believe unlike other candidates, Hashemi with his high reputation can make major changes in the Islamic Republic and revive the Reformists’ position. Hashemi is one of the harshest critics of the current administration’s foreign policy. He recently said: “[the Current administration] did badly in foreign policy,” referring to president Ahmadinejad’s rhetoric Hashemi added: “Some encourage confrontation and then claim that the sanctions are just ink on paper.”    He believes that repealing sanctions against Iran is a difficult task and Iran should pay a lot in return. “We’re not at a war with Israel, but we will help if Arabs invade the country.” he said. On Iran’s nuclear issue Hashemi said: “the Supreme Leader’s Fatwa on banning nuclear weapons is more important than any political commitment and I believe if the West stops their illogical pressures, we wouldn’t have any problems using nuclear energy for medical, agricultural and electricity producing purposes.” One of the most controversial comments of Hashemi was printed in a political journal earlier this year in which he said: “the US is the ultimate power. In our perception, what’s the difference between US and China, Russia and Europe? If we negotiate with them, why not negotiate with the US?”   Eshagh Jahangiri Eshagh Jahangiri was the industry minister during Mohammad Khatami’s administration and a member of the “Laborers and Construction” party. Jahangiri’s words are derived from Khatami’s statements and Hashemi’s to a certain degree. In an interview with a newspaper about the future of Reformists in the current elections he said: “I think the world will have a different view towards Reformists and a great deal of our problems in foreign policy will get solved no matter which Reformist candidate wins.” Jahangiri in criticizing the Ahmadinejad administration said: “sanctions won’t get lifted easily. But [if we win the election] the world knows they are dealing with a wise team who believes in winning for both sides and interaction through diplomacy. In such circumstances, the world can’t bully us anymore, and they should talk in a sensible way.”   Hassan Rowhani Hassan Rowhani is the head of the center for strategic studies for the country and an old companion of Hashemi. Apparently, there are no differences between Hashemi and Rowhani in terms of foreign policy.  “We have to restrain the hostility between Iran and the US. Iran is not meant to remain enemies with the US forever. We have to change this relationship in the right time, while preserving our national interests,” said Hasan Rowhani, now 64, who has been the secretary of the National Supreme Security Council and also in charge of Iran’s nuclear issue. Pricipalists criticize Rowhani for halting nuclear enrichment in 2002. When declaring his candidacy, he said: “If I get elected, I will change the path we’ve taken. We can use a better strategy in which we preserve our inalienable right, while getting along with the rest of the world. It’s clear that nuclear energy is our inalienable right, but other things are too. Like not being under sanctions and not having pressure on ordinary people. We want to achieve all these rights, not just one.”   Mohammad-Reza Aref Mohammad-Reza Aref, 52, Vice President of Khatami’s second administration, a University professor and a politician is another Reformist candidate. He is close to Khatami but some believe he’s more of a soft touch than Khatami. “We are obliged to defend our national rights in the world’s communities. We should interact with the world. But in our talks we should respect the right of other countries. We shouldn’t consider ourselves as the leader of the world and give suggestions to the world while we have a lot of problems in our own country. We are responsible for our country. We shouldn’t be weak in negotiations, so they won’t impose their will on us.”   Mostafa Kavakebian Mostafa Kavakebian’s comments about the nuclear issue and negotiations with the US are probably the most interesting. “I proposed a scheme to the Parliament with which we could normalise our relations with the US within 6 months and I’m sticking to my guns. Of course we should take note of our red lines,” said Kavakebian who has less chance of victory between the reformist candidates.   Conclusion As we see, if Reformists were to win, Iran’s policy towards the nuclear issue and the way of dealing with US will likely change. However it is possible that the Supreme Leader will use his authority to prevent the next president of changing the overall strategy of the Islamic Republic, yet a change in tactics dealing with the west on the nuclear issue is the least we can anticipate. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Deputy Nuclear Negotiator Reviews Past Mistakes in Negotiations Iran’s Leader Advises on The Presidential Elections, Criticizes Ahmadinejad’s Volatile Economy In Photos: Iran’s Presidential Election Candidates Registration Hashemi Rafsanjani Will Run For President: His Daughter Tags: Eshagh Jahangiri, featured, Hashemi Rafsanjani, hassan Rowhani, headline, Iran Elections, Iran's Nuclear Program, Mohammad Khatami, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Mostafa Kavakebian, USA
####May 21st, 2013####What Will Happen To The Reformists if Hashemi Rafsanjani Gets Disqualified?####Statements of Iran’s Guardian Council’s spokesman Abbas-Ali Kadkhodaei have shocked the Reformists into silence. Kadkhoda’ei said on Sunday in an interview with an Arabic-language news Channel of Iran, Alalam, that those who are only able to work a couple of hours a day are not suitable for a high ranking executive post. He also said, it’s possible that we consider physical health as a factor in our assessment, but it hasn’t been discussed so far. Hassan Rohani, one of leading reformists candidates waving hands to journalists. Although he didn’t mention a specific person, his words were targeting Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, and this made his supporters concerned. They knew about his old age, but they were counting on his influence and political experience. Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, 78, has already been a President for 8 years. But the Guardian Council may prevent him becoming a President for the 3rd time. On registration day, Hashemi said that he would respect the Guardian Council’s decision. So if he gets disqualified, he should act accordingly even though the Reformists would lose the hope they had gained with Hashemi’s candidacy. The Reformists’ front will scatter between Muhammad Reza Aref, Hassan Rowhani, Mohammad Shariatmadari, Masoud Pezeshkian, Mostafa Kavakebian and some other lesser known characters, of-course if they have chance to get qualified. Some reformists also will boycott the election without Hashemi in the race. Eshaq Jahangiri didn’t register in time, so all eyes are on Aref. Maybe Hashemi’s rejection would make Aref even happier than the Principalists. Mohammad Reza Aref 62, has been VP in the Khatami administration for 7 years. Despite the fact that he’s seen as an experienced figure, he couldn’t gain the support of some Reformist groups. Hassan Rowhani’s situation is no better. He’s known as Hashemi’s representative, but he only has a small support from moderate Reformists and some politicians don’t even consider him as a Reformist. Pezeshkian, a Minister in the Hashemi administration is not expected to gain a significant following. The Reformists tough days are exasperated with unity among their opponents in the Principalists front. In the Principalists front Ali Akbar Aboutorabi announced his withdrawal. Some hours later, Bagheri Lankarani and a bit later Alireza Zakani withdrew in favor of Saeed Jalili, Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator. A lot of speculations around the political spectrum hinted Gholam-Ali Haddad Adel and Ali Akbar Velayati’s might withdraw in favor of Jalili, so the so called “Resistance against Sanctions” front would test the waters in the coming election. With Hashemi’s rejection unless they compromise on a single candidate the Reformists will face a failure. Although even a single candidate couldn’t get the majority of Reformists’s votes. Hashemi released his third election manifesto in which he said, for political impact, every political party should be present in the election. His words are interpreted as a reaction to the possible decision of the Guardian Council. If the Guardian Council ignore Hashemi’s old age, we should expect different scenarios and the Reformists chance of victory will increase. *Abdullah Almasi is the Editor in Chief of Iranian Jahannews.com news website. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Iran’s Guardian Council Hinted at Hashemi Rafsanjani’s Disapproval Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball In Photos: Iran’s Presidential Election Candidates Registration Subsidies Are A Hot Election Issue In Iran Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, featured, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, hassan Rowhani, Iran Elections, Mohammad Shariatmadari, Mohmmad Reza Aref, Mostafa Kavakebian, Principalists, Reformists, Saeed Jalili
####May 18th, 2013####Jalili: Amputee Candidate Becoming Frontrunner in Presidential Race####By Masoud Foroghi Scores of people are stepping up for the presidency as we are witnessing more than 38 would-be candidates from the three major political parties in Iran, Principalists, Reformists and pro-governments, have registered as candidates. Perhaps one of the significant turning points in Iran’s recent politics was the last minute registration of the three well-known figures: Saeed Jalili, secretary of the National Security Council, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, head of the expediency council and Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, top advisor to the president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Most analysts consider Jalili’s unforeseen appearance as the most important. They believe Hashemi Rafsanjani is the experienced man who knows the ropes and it was nothing new to Iranian voters. In the eyes of the people, Mashaei is another Ahmadinejad, as he himself said, “Ahmadinejad means Mashaei and Mashaei means Ahmadinejad.” But who is Saeed Jalili? Jalili graduated from one of the most important institutes of Iran, Imam Sadigh University which is headed by Mohammad-Reza Mahdavi Kani, the current chairman of the Assembly of Experts. He went to war with Iraq in the 80s and one of his legs was amputated. But that didn’t stop him from continuing his studies. Secretary of Iran’s NSC, Saeed Jalili( First form left) reacts while attending a religious ceremony in the residence of Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei May 2012. (Photo Credit: Khamenei.ir) His service as the secretary of Iran’s NSC and his handling of the sensitive nuclear program would be the most important job Jalili ever had. “I had my high school diploma in 1983 and came to Tehran [from Mashhad] to study at the Imam Sadigh University. I received my MA in 1989 and applied for a PhD abroad. But at the same time I was recruited into the Foreign Ministry so I decided to study my PhD at Imam Sadigh University in political sociology. From 1992 to 1998 I was head of the inspection office of the foreign ministry,” Saeed Jalili wrote in his biography. He also was in charge of one of the offices of the Supreme Leader for 4 years. why is Jalili’s candidacy important? Jalili 48, doesn’t  have much executive experience and is mostly seen as a diplomat. however he is very popular among Iranian voters. The Internet is filled with posters and articles supporting him and even some of the famous candidates said they are ready to step aside in favor of him. One day after Jalili’s registration, many Principalists faced numerous questions on how they perceive his candidacy. Gholam-Ali Haddad Adel, former MP and a known Pricipalist candidate welcomed Jalili’s candidacy and said, it’s possible that our coalition of 2+1 (Adel, Mohammad- Bagher Ghalibaf and Ali Akbar Velayati) will support Jalili altogether. Another candidate, Alireza Zakani said he is ready to unite with Jalili. The Jebheye Paydari front which is led by Ayatollah Mohammad-Taghi Mesbah Yzdi, a senior cleric from Qom, cited Jalili’s candidacy as being productive and helpful. Being in the National Security Council since 2007, Jalili has become a symbol of the resistance against the demands of the west on the nuclear issue and has been leading the iranian team in negotiations with the EU and USA (P5+1). Jalili sat down with the foreign policy authorities of Europe, China and Russia several times and boasted about  Iran’s advancement in nuclear technology as the officials of the US council of foreign policy have reportedly stated their concerns of pressures on Iran being fruitless.  Twice Jalili rejected an invitation from a US representative in the P5+1 to have bilateral meetings . For Iranians, this shows he can confront the US. The First time he was in Geneva when William Burns, indirectly asked him for talks, through the foreign Minister of Switzerland. The Iranian delegation rejected this and demanded a public hearing in the P5+1 meeting but the US representative wanted Jalili to listen to him anyway. finally they had a one-by-one sidebar conservation. When back home, Saeed Jalili said, no one should act out of accord with the Supreme Leader’s will. It was perhaps an indication that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei criticized Jalili’s bilateral talk with the American undersecretary of state. So in the next rounds of talks Jalili avoided to hold bilateral talks with Americans. In Iran, Jalili is seen as a politician close to Iran’s Leader who demands Iran’s strong role in politics and economics. He reiterated several times that the key to Iran’s success and progress, is resistance and this word is what Ayatollah Khamenei underlines in all of his speeches. Public opinion has responded positively to Jalili’s candidacy as several people’s committees formed independent election campaigns supporting him. Iranian people don’t have a negative memory of him, because he was never involved in domestic politics. While Hashemi’s past is filled with failures (of course along with successes) and this can be a winner for Jalili, as it was for Ahmadinejad in 2005 when his opponent was Hashemi. *Masoud Foroghi is a student political activist and an editor of the Iranian University Student news website. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Lankarani Withdraws to Make Jalili the Frontrunner for Principalist Candidate Breaking: Iran’s Interior Ministry Announced List of Qualified Presidential Candidates Iran political parties prepare for presidential elections “World Powers Afraid of Jalili’s Candidacy”, Says Campaign Aide Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, Ayatollah Khamenei, Ayatollah Mesbah Yazdi, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Guardian Council, Hashemi Rafsanjani, Imam Sadigh University, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Mohammad-Reza Mahdavi Kani, P5+1, Saeed Jalili, Supreme Leader, USA, William Burns
####June 22nd, 2013####Who Might Serve in Rowhani’s Cabinet?####From Left to Right: Mohmmad Reza Aref, Gholamali Hadad-Adel, Ali Akbar Velyati, Ali Akbar Nategh-Nori The Iranian president elect, Hassan Rowhani, is going to be sworn into office in less than 50 days and then based on the country’s constitution he has to introduce his ministers to the Parliament in two weeks. Before the election, Rowhani pledged to use individuals with different political tendencies in his administration. It seems that he is under pressure from some figures, political parties, and the media who try to influence his decisions for appointing his ministers. One of these figures is Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani who supported Rowhani in his presidential campaign. He has advised Rowhani to use “qualified and experienced people in industry and manufacturing.” According to a  website close to the Hashemi’s family Rowhani has formed an ‘Appointment Committee’ responsible for the appointment of ministers. The committee includes Ali Yonesi, Akbar Torkan, eshagh Jahangiri, Mohammad Ali Najafi, Mohammadreza Nematzadeh who all served as top officials and ministers during Hashemi’s presidency. So far, the only person whom Rowhani has named as a member of his cabinet is Mohammad Reza Aref, the Reformist Candidate who withdrew from the presidential race under pressures by reformists’ leader and former president Mohammad Khatami and Rowhani’s supporters. There are speculations about Rowhani’s possible ministers. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, Ali Akbar Velayati and Mohsen Rezaee who were among his rivals in the election are said to be among the appointments as Rowhani promised in the pre-election debates to use his rivals in his administration. It is said that Ghalibaf would be offered the Housing Ministry, Rezaee the Ministry of Welfare and Social Affairs, and Velayati the Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there are three possible candidates: Mahmoud Vaezi, Rowhani’s political representative in his presidential campaign, Ali Akbar Salehi the current foreign minister and Kamal Kharrazi Khatami’s foreign minister, all of them said to an equal chance to get the position. Aref, Najafi, and Mohsen Mehralizadeh are thought to be his options for vice presidency and Ali Yonesi for Ministry of Information. Based on a speculation, Ali Akbar Nategh Noori a well-known revolutionary figure who has severed under Mirhossein Mousavi as the interior minister and also headed the fourth and fifth parliaments will be appointed as the Minister of Interior and a weaker speculation gives Eshagh Jahangiri the same chance. Presidential Candidate Mohammad Reza Aref (left), former Iranian president, Mohammad Khatami (Right). Bijan Namdar zangane who served under, Mousavi, Hashmeni, and Khatami as minister is said to be appointed as Oil Minister, with Kazem Vaziri Hamaneh being the second choice for the position. For the ministry of Defense, three options are talked about: Ali shamkhani, Akbar Torkan, and above the two, Hossein Dehghan who also was vice president during Khatami and Ahmadinejad administrations. Ali Akbar Salehi, Gholamreza Aghazadeh, and Hossein Freidoni are said to be the candidates for heading the country’s Atomic Energy Organization. For the Ministry of Industry, Mining, and Business the possible candidates are Mohammad Shariatmadari, Nematzadeh, and Mohammad Nahavandian and for the Ministry of Economy the speculations fall on Mohammad Bagher Nobakht. Rowhani is being fully observed for his possible choice for the Ministry of Science due to what he promised to students before the election. Abdollah Jasbi, Jafar Tofighi and Ali Abbaspour are considered as possible candidates for the position. It is speculated that Ali Motahhari is going to be appointed as the Minter of Culture. Motahhari is a devoted supporter of Hashemi and despite favoring freedom of expression he has strict views about hijab and public morals. Iran is hosting the Friends of Syria Conference in the capital, Tehran, with the participation of representatives from 40 countries as well as heads of regional and international organizations on May 29,2013. The Ministry of Sports is probably going to be taken by either Sayyed Mostafa Hashemi-Taba or Mohammad Dadkan, both suggested to Rowhani by champions of different sports. The current Minister of Justice Morteza Bakhtiari has a high chance to remain in the position but Abbas-Ali Shooshtari is also another possible candidate who has served in the position before. The president-elect is said to offer Ministry of Helath to Salahoddin Delshad or Masood Pezeshkian. His possible candidate for the Ministry of Communication would be Nasrollah Jahangard, and for the Ministry of Roads and Urban Developments among the possible candidates are Ali Abdolalizadeh and Ali Akbar Aghaee. None of these speculations have been officially approved by Rowhani so far. Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Khatami Trying To Unify Reformists Behind Aref Unified Iranian Reformists Behind Rowhani The Worst News For Principalists Iran’s Elections 2013: The Reformists are Playing Ball How Did The Fundementalist Rowhani Become The Reformists’ Ultimate Candidate? Tags: Abdollah Jasbi, Ali Abdolalizadeh, Ali Akbar Aghaee, Ali Akbar Nategh Noori, Ali Akbar Salehi, Ali Motahhari, Ali shamkhani, Ali Yonesi, Bijan Namdar zangane, Gholamreza Aghazadeh, hassan Rowhani, headline, Hossein Freidoni, Iran Elections, Masood Pezeshkian, Mohammad Dadkan, Mohammad Nahavandian, Mohammad Shariatmadari, Nasrollah Jahangard, Sayyed Mostafa Hashemi-Taba
####June 1st, 2013####“World Powers Afraid of Jalili’s Candidacy”, Says Campaign Aide####In an interview with Iran’sView, Sayyed Hossein Naghavi, the head of Saeed Jalili’s presidential campaign in the capital city Tehran emphasized that the candidate is completely different from his rivals and doesn’t believe in compromising with the west. Saeed Jalili waving his hands to the crowd of his supporters during his first election campaign in Tehran on May 24,2013. (Photo Credit: Nasim) “Since Dr Jalili entered the election race his popularity rate has been on the rise. We think the rate would continue to rise until the election day,” said the spokesman of parliament’s National Security and foreign policy commission about Jalili’s popularity. Responding to a question about the possibility of Jalili forming a coalition with other fundamentalist candidates (Ali Akbar Velayati, Gholam Ali Haddad-Adel, and Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf), Naghavi said Jalili has entered the race as an independent fundamentalist candidate and doesn’t represent any party or political group, adding that he will continue his independent way. He said Jalili doesn’t feel any threat from the reformist and independent candidates, believing that he would win the election at the first round. “We don’t think about the run off voting or even the possibility of the victory of a reformist candidate at all.” According to Naghavi, Jalili is more devoted to the discourse of the Islamic Revolution, compared to his rivals, as he believes in resistance against the west rather than compromise or submission. Jalili also believes that religious democracy should be propounded in the world as a political system and that Iran should reduce its dependence on hegemonic systems. Foreign groups and the enemies of Iran do not have a positive view towards Jalili, Naghavi explained further. “The hegemonic powers and the groups that have been in war with our nation since the beginning of the Islamic Revolution are frightened by Jalili’s candidacy and thus continue the character assassination against him.” They however had a similar negative view towards Mahmoud Ahmadinejad during the tenth presidential election in Iran. Until then, Mr. Ahmadinejad seemed to take positions in accordance to the preferences of the head of the country but after winning the election he did things that suggested he was at odds with the supreme leader Ayatollah Sayed Ali Khamenei. This has made some political activist think that Saeed Jalili might follow Ahmadinejad in this regard. But Naghavi rejects this possibility.”Dr. Jalili believes the final word is the Leader’s; not based on the status that the constitution regards for Wilayat al Faqih (the guardianship of the jurist), but because of his personal belief and faith.” The head of Saeed Jalili’s presidential campaign in Tehran also rejected the claims about Jalili being “the government’s candidate”, arguing, “In the seventh presidential election similarly many claimed that Nategh Noori was the government’s candidate but people voted for Mohammad Khatami and he became the president for two terms. Today also the government considers all of the candidates approved by the Guardian Council suitable for presidency and it is the people who should vote and elect the best candidate as president.” Share this: Digg Share on Tumblr Related posts: Hashemi Will Not Oppose His Disqualification By The Guardian Council: Campaign’s Spokesman Iran’s Election: Principalists In Disarray After Hashemi Disqualified Iran’s Election: Poll Results Suggest a 50% turnout and A Run Off Voting Jalili: Amputee Candidate Becoming Frontrunner in Presidential Race Tags: Ali Akbar Velayati, Ayatollah Khamenei, Gholam Ali Hadad-Adel, Iran Elections, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, Principalists, Saeed Jalili, Sayyed Hossein Naghavi, Tehran
####2013 June 06####Iran has a right to peaceful nuclear enrichment####The campaign to elect Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's successor as Iranian president is well under way. The eight candidates took part in a TV debate on cultural policies yesterday, with a further debate scheduled before the vote takes place on 14 June. Internationally there is despair. Absent from the debate was the former President Hashemi Rafsanjani, excluded from the list of approved candidates by the Guardian Council. That move was taken as a sign that Iran is about to turn its back on nuclear negotiations. This is too gloomy. It is certainly true that Rafsanjani, who was president from 1989 to 1997, has ripened in old age into a member of the reform camp. However, it would be hard to put a cigarette paper between him and other presidential candidates on the nuclear issue. All of them fully support Iran's current nuclear programme and insist that it is entitled to carry out uranium enrichment on its own soil. All are fully agreed in rejecting western demands that Iran should abandon its peaceful programme. Saeed Jalili, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, is said to be making strong progress (though in the absence of polling evidence it is hard to be sure). He is sometimes viewed as a hardliner, but that may not be a bad thing. If he is trusted by the supreme leader, he may be given extra freedom to negotiate on the nuclear issue. The figure most likely to take up the reformist mantle of the absent Rafsanjani, however, has a record of flexibility in talking to the west. Hassan Rouhani headed Iran's nuclear negotiating team from 2003 to 2005. It was during his term of office that Iran made an extraordinary offer that could have solved the nuclear standoff between Iran and the west once and for all. At a meeting in the Quai d'Orsay (the French ministry of foreign affairs) on 23 March 2005, Iran unveiled the most comprehensive and important offer it has ever made. It proposed the continuous presence of inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Authority at Iran's enrichment facilities, immediate conversion of all low-enriched uranium to fuel rods for power reactors (precluding the possibility of further enrichment) and no processing of spent fuel rods, ruling out the possibility of plutonium production. In return, Iran demanded that the west allow it to carry on with its programme of peaceful nuclear enrichment. This was a reasonable demand, since Iran has an "inalienable right" to develop peaceful nuclear power under article 4.1 of the non-proliferation treaty, which it signed in 1968. The offer, however, was rejected out of hand, and there is no doubt why. Acting on instructions from the US, the European negotiators were determined not to "tolerate even the operation of even one centrifuge in Iran". Though there are faults on both sides, this refusal to acknowledge Iran's right to peaceful enrichment remains the most fundamental stumbling block to any resolution of the nuclear argument. Whoever wins this month's elections, no progress is possible unless the west acknowledges this point. Happily there are signs that President Obama's new administration may be ready to be flexible. In 2009 Senator John Kerry (then chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee) told the Financial Times that under the treaty, Iran had "a right to peaceful nuclear power and to enrichment in that purpose". So there is every reason to feel hopeful that the Iranian elections can open the way to a full resolution of the Iranian nuclear problem. If so, any deal will look very similar to the one offered by Iranian presidential hopeful Hassan Rouhani in 2005 – and flatly rejected on the orders of George Bush.
####2013 June 12####Iran: vote early, and vote often####However far elections in Iran fail the basic test of being free and fair, they are not, paradoxically foregone conclusions. Last month, as hundreds registered to stand for the presidential election, everyone groaned as the two heavyweights who could have counterbalanced the overarching power of Iran's supreme leader, former presidents Mohammad Khatami and Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, either refused to run or were disqualified. Countering rumours that he was too old and thus unfit for the presidency, Rafsanjani revealed this week that the guardian council had been swayed in its deliberations by a senior security figure, reinforcing the notion that his exclusion was politically motivated. So much for the predictable. But now for the opposite. Saeed Jalili, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, who many saw as Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's preferred candidate, has performed terribly, particularly on his special subject – the handling of Iran's nuclear negotiations. It has come under fire from all sides – moderates and conservatives alike. Hassan Rouhani, a moderate cleric and former chief nuclear negotiator himself said it is great to have the uranium enrichment centrifuges spinning, providing that Iran keeps its economy spinning too. Ali Akbar Velayati, a conservative who advises Khamenei on foreign policy, also laid into Jalili during a television debate, saying that the art of diplomacy was to preserve Iran's nuclear rights, not to see sanctions increase. Jalili's star is falling, but under this system there are still five of the original eight who made it through the guardian council hurdle whom Ayatollah Khamenei would be comfortable with as president. But that is not all. Iran's beleaguered reformists have thrown their weight behind Rouhani. To avoid splitting the vote , the other reformist candidate, Mohammad Reza Aref, withdrew on Monday in what appeared to be a coordinated plan. In addition, a consensus is now forming within what remains of the green movement, whose leaders are under house arrest, and among prisoners a no-vote or a spoiled vote is a vote for conservatism. They well remember that in 2005 more people did not vote than voted for the regime candidate Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The election is not going to be boycotted by the opposition, and this can only be good news. Elections are run by the ministry of interior, part of the government dominated by the outgoing president. He has become an opponent of those around Ayatollah Khamenei, although he has not attacked the supreme leader himself. All this points to a more freewheeling event on Friday than anyone could have imagined last month. The current conservative favourite is Tehran's mayor, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf. A further runoff vote would favour his side, but anything is still possible. • This article was amended on 13 June 2013. The original misspelled "foregone" as "forgone".
####2013 June 14####Iran elections: there's room for surprise, but the system will win out####As Iranians vote on Friday they are faced with a choice of six potential presidents, two having dropped out of the running in the final few days. One of these was the last overtly reformist candidate, Mohammad Reza Aref, who withdrew in favour of a moderate, Hassan Rouhani. But the election campaign has not caught fire in the way it did in 2009, when the Green movement arose and seemed for a time to be on the point of transforming the Islamic Republic. That is no accident. Televised debates last week revolved around the economy and the nuclear question. With unemployment at more than 20%, inflation well over 40%, Iran defying the US and its allies over the nuclear question and suffering sanctions that amount to an economic blockade, these debates could have been fierce. They did produce rare criticism of the regime's negotiating stance in the nuclear talks (by the former foreign minister Ali Akbar Velayati, who attacked the regime's favoured candidate, the nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili). But they did not capture the popular imagination, and were ridiculed by some Iranians for the awkwardness of their format (at one point, for example, a moderator flashed up random images on a screen and asked the candidates to say what thoughts they prompted). Despite the formidable constraints, Iranian politics has an exuberant, irrepressible quality and, in the past, presidential elections have produced surprises. The election of President Khatami in 1997; Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2005; and the huge demonstrations of 2009 against Ahmadinejad's re-election – all of these were wholly unexpected. For Iran's supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, and the circle of advisers around him, the dilemma of 2013 has been how to avoid such surprises and ensure a safe result – one that upholds the stability of the system, or nezam in Persian – while retaining enough public interest to generate a healthy turnout that can be presented as a popular endorsement of the system. This dilemma reflects the still unresolved tension in the constitution of the Islamic Republic between the principle of paternalistic clerical supervision (crystallised in the person of Khamenei, Khomeini's successor), and that of popular participation in government through elections. Islamic, or republic? Khamenei and his circle will always choose to err on the side of caution and control, avoiding the risk that goes with free popular participation. The prime means by which elections are manipulated by the leadership in Iran is through the vetting of candidates. Hundreds – sometimes thousands – are excluded by the guardian council at every election. The exclusions from the presidential candidate list were significant. Ahmadinejad himself could not run for office this time because the constitution (as in the US) does not allow a president to stand for a third consecutive term. The exclusion of his political ally Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei sealed, for now, Ahmadinejad's return to obscurity. The other big name to be locked out was the former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. In the 80s and early 90s Rafsanjani was one of the most powerful men in the country, if not the most powerful, and he still holds important offices. His exclusion showed again that power in Iran has been concentrated in the hands of a narrow group of hardline conservatives. Rafsanjani was blocked because, when the system had its wobbly moment after the 2009 elections, he criticised the conduct of the poll, siding with the Green movement. Everyone has to behave themselves to stay inside the tent. In Ayatollah Khomeini's time the tent was quite large: the founder of the Islamic Republic took trouble to keep a variety of views and opinions in balance. Under Khamenei, the tent has got smaller, and more and more people have found themselves outside it. Beyond the exclusions, the reformists have suffered from a lack of leadership. Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, their candidates in 2009, are still under house arrest. Many Green-inclined journalists and others have left the country since 2009. Some are still in prison, and there have been more pre-emptive arrests recently. Rafsanjani has been encouraging moderates and reformists to vote for Rouhani, his close associate. Because there are still six candidates running this time (in 2009 there were only four) it is likely that no one will get a clear majority, in which case voting will go to a second round, where the two leading candidates will run off against each other. Some room for surprises still remains, but as things stand it is hard to see how the system will not win. There is an impression, reinforced by the attacks on his handling of negotiations with the west in the televised debate, that Jalili has not run a good campaign. Velayati has appeared statesmanlike and would have Khamenei's full confidence in future nuclear negotiations, but may struggle to get the popular vote. Rouhani may do better in the election, but can Khamenei trust a Rafsanjani protege? The ruling group may get away with it this time, but they cannot assume they will be able to sustain power in conditions of continued sanctions-induced economic meltdown. One thing is certain: whichever candidate wins, pinned between the demands of the supreme leader, an increasingly desperate electorate and hostile foreign powers, his job will be no easy one.
####2013 June 16####Iran has changed course. Now the US must do the same####Hassan Rouhani's victory in the Iranian election is truly stunning. It opens a window of hope for an easing of tension between Iran and the west on the strained nuclear file but also on the more urgent issue – the self-destructive clash between Shia and Sunni Islam that is killing thousands in Syria and Iraq and threatens the entire Middle East region. Although Rouhani had been well ahead in the final pre-election polls, no one expected him or anyone else to receive enough votes to avoid a runoff. That he did so in a six-horse race is astonishing. The result confirms that Iran's elections are always unpredictable. The high turnout also shows that Iranian voters felt they had a genuine choice, thereby confounding the tired comments from many outside analysts that little separates the candidates because they all had to be vetted by the Islamic republic's Guardian Council. Two things seem to have swung so many people to Rouhani's side. He was endorsed in the last few days (clever of them to wait until near the end) by former presidents Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami. This meant that the centrist and reformist camps had coalesced behind one man, while the conservative vote was split between the five other candidates. (Unlike 2009 – when he endorsed Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for a second term – Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, offered no public support for anyone – a good move, given the surprising result.) The second factor was Rouhani's stellar performance in the three televised debates and the poor presentation by Saeed Jalili, the current nuclear negotiator, who had earlier been seen as the frontrunner. Rouhani promised to ease tensions with the west and to try to end international sanctions, implicitly blaming his predecessor Ahmadinejad for provoking them with his rash statements and uncompromising line. Jalili took a battering for his hardline positions in the latest round of talks this spring with the permanent five members of the security council, though the toughest attack came not from Rouhani but from Ali Akbar Velayati, a former foreign minister, who said that interacting with the world was better than defying it. Sanctions have had a devastating effect on Iranian lives and the economy. Ahmadinejad, who came to power claiming to be able to do more for Iran's poorest people, was exposed as a failure, whereas Rouhani pointed out that in the several years when he was chief nuclear negotiator the issue was not taken to the security council. The clear message from the majority of the Iranian electorate is that they prefer his more rational approach. Rouhani impressed viewers of the presidential debates when he said he had "never lied" to Iranians, and told a hardline rival candidate: "I'm not a general but a jurist." How he will proceed once he takes office is not yet clear, but one of his former aides on the nuclear file, Hossein Mousavian, recently highlighted a proposal that Ali Akbar Salehi, Iran's foreign minister, made last year. Salehi offered to turn Khamenei's 2003 fatwa banning nuclear weapons into a "secular document that would bind the [Iranian] government". This would give much greater force to Iran's longstanding denial of interest in having a nuclear weapon. In return, all sanctions should be lifted and Iran's rights under the non-proliferation treaty to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes should be openly recognised by the security council. Salehi's proposal was ignored in the west, but it deserves serious consideration if Rouhani as president re-confirms it. The Obama administration needs to take stock and think hard after this surprise result, especially as its first reaction was full of hasty blunders. It patronised Iranian voters by saying they showed "courage in making their voices heard" and was rude in urging Rouhani to "heed the will of the Iranian people". If the White House is really "ready to engage the Iranian government directly", as it said on Saturday, why did it not have the courtesy to send Rouhani a message of congratulations? At the heart of the conflict between Iran and the west is the US's unwillingness to accept Iran's independence in foreign and domestic policies. Instead, the country's government is constantly demonised, and its intentions deliberately put under suspicion. The psychological wounds of having US diplomats taken hostage in 1979 have not been allowed to heal, while on the Iranian side the US and British role in toppling their government in 1953 has also not been forgiven. When the last moderate president, Mohammad Khatami, was in power, the George W Bush administration foolishly invented "an axis of evil" and claimed Iran was part of it. Today we have a new chance to turn the page. It is a crucial issue for the whole Middle East, now that American hostility to Iran has helped to turn Saudi Arabia and other Arab Gulf states into an anti-Iranian alliance of Sunnis versus Shias. Because of this unnecessary creation of tensions and its conversion into a proxy war, sectarianism is destroying Syria and re-emerging with lethal force in Iraq. In the wake of Rouhani's victory, the first thing Obama should do is to drop US objections to letting Iran attend the proposed Geneva conference on Syria. If Washington is ready to negotiate with Iran on nuclear issues, it makes no sense to exclude it from the talks on Syria. The second thing is to accelerate preparations for the conference itself by putting sustained pressure on Syria's rebel forces to come up with a negotiating strategy and take part. For Washington to change course here would send an important signal, not only that Iran has to be part of any solution in Syria and the region, but also that the anti-Iranian cancer that has affected American policy in the Middle East since the axis-of-evil speech has at last been excised.
####2013 May 21####Iran's presidential election: clearing the path####The shadow of the unrest that took place after Iran's presidential election in 2009 still hangs heavily over the country. Even though the leaders of the Green movement are today under house arrest, and its membership divided over whether to boycott the presidential elections next month, much of what is happening is a result of the lessons the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, learned then. In preparation for the announcement of approved candidates by the Guardian Council, internet speeds have been cut, security has been heightened in Tehran and a record number of journalists are in prison. The database we publish today on Iran's prisoners of conscience makes important reading. Not all has been going to the script. The contest was enlivened by the last-minute registration of a former Iranian president, Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, and Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, the protege of the outgoing president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Neither man is a reformer, but the independence of each represents enough of a challenge to the "principle-ists" or die-hard loyalists around the supreme leader. Remember 2009? Iranian voters are too passionate about their politics, their mood too volatile, to be entrusted with real choice, or so the regime calculates. Iran's state-run television channel IRIB announced the final list of candidates, which excluded both Rafsanjani and Mashaei, implying that they were disqualified. Ahmadinejad had promised that if his candidate was rejected, he would launch a campaign of what the Russians call kompromat, the publication of the dirty secrets of his opponents. Mashaei represents a breed of nationalist who puts Iran first and Islam second. But ideology is secondary to the spectacular fallout that his boss has had with the supreme leader. Rafsanjani's exclusion, ostensibly on grounds of age, is harder to assess. A confidant of Ayatollah Khomeini, the founder of the Islamic republic, Rafsanjani is a pragmatist, and his supporters include conservatives like the MP Ali Motahari. But Rafsanjani spoke out for the opposition in the wake of the repression in 2009. His son and daughter are now in that camp. Had he run, Rafsanjani may well have become a powerful magnet for anti-regime sentiment. Only two names stand out from the ultra-loyalist throng, former nuclear negotiator Hassan Rowhani and former vice-president Mohammad Reza Aref. Neither has the stature of the excluded men. The path to the presidency thus appears to have been cleared for the favourite Saeed Jalili, who has been in charge of Iran's nuclear negotiations. If Jalili wins, Ali Khamenei's grip on the presidency, shaken by the fallout with Ahmedinejad, will be re-established.
####2013 August 03####Iran's Ayatollah Khamenei endorses Hassan Rouhani as president####Iran's supreme leader has formally endorsed Hassan Rouhani as the country's president, opening the way for the moderate cleric to take over from Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. In a ceremony broadcast live on state television on Saturday, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei gave his official approval for Rouhani. As the ultimate authority in Iran, Khamenei has the final say in all key matters, including Rouhani's upcoming selections for key cabinet posts, such as the foreign and intelligence ministers. Rouhani, who will take the oath of office in parliament on Sunday, won a landslide victory in the presidential elections on 14 June. He has pledged to follow a "path of moderation" and promised greater openness over the country's nuclear programme, which has placed it at odds with the west. All foreign diplomats were invited to the inauguration but Britain declined to send an envoy. Douglas Alexander, Labour's shadow foreign secretary, said the decision was ill-judged and short-sighted. "Britain should be pursuing a twin-track diplomatic approach to Iran where possible by improving bilateral relations whilst also maintaining peaceful pressure through sanctions," he said. "An open dialogue with Iran is not only important in relation to Britain's security, but also to raise vital matters such as freedom of speech and expression in Iran with the newly elected president." • This article was amended on 20 September 2013. It originally called the Iranian president Hasan Rouhani. It should be Hassan Rouhani. This has been corrected.
####2013 February 05####Mahmoud Ahmadinejad issues challenge to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei####When Mahmoud Ahmadinejad became Iran's president seven years ago, he made his presence felt through incendiary statements targeted at Israel and the west. Now, in his dying days in office, he is going out all guns firing. Only this time he is taking aim at the edifice of the political system that championed him. This week, while schools across Iran were made to decorate classrooms as part of the celebrations marking the 34th anniversary of the 1979 revolution, Tehran was the scene of an unprecedented, and very public, spat at the highest levels of the Islamic republic. On Sunday, a power struggle between Ahmadinejad and the speaker of the parliament, Ali Larijani, reached a climax when the former, in a dramatic sequence of events, played a secretly filmed tape for jeering MPs that showed the latter's brother, Fazel, allegedly trading on his sibling's influence for financial gain in a conversation with Saeed Mortazavi, the caretaker of Iran's social welfare organisation. Ahmadinejad was addressing the parliament in defence of his employment and welfare minister, Abdolreza Sheikholeslami, who was facing impeachment for appointing Mortazavi, a close ally of the president, to the welfare job. Mortazavi, a former judge and prosecutor general of Tehran, is loathed by the MPs because of his links to the death in custody of at least three protesters in the aftermath of the 2009 disputed presidential election which gave Ahmadinejad a second term. "These are audio and video, and the tape is clear," said Ahmadinejad, in quotes carried by the semi-official Isna news agency. "If the honourable parliament speaker sees fit, we can turn over the 24 to 25 hours of recordings to you." A few minutes of a barely audible tape were played as millions of Iranians listened to the extraordinary parliamentary session live on national radio. "It was a good thing that you showed this to let people learn about you character," Ali Larijani retorted. Larijani's brother, Fazel, denied the accusations and said he would sue Ahmadinejad and Mortazavi. On Monday, the fallout was felt when Tehran prosecutor's the office announced Mortazavi, known by activists as "butcher of the press" and "serial human rights abuser", had been arrested. While prosecutor general, he tightened control of the press, closing 18 newspapers within two days in 2000, and handed down lengthy jail sentences to protesters and activists. He was also linked to the case of Zahra Kazemi, an Iranian-Canadian photographer who died while in Evin prison in 2003. Ahmadinejad, however, was infuriated by Mortazavi's arrest and labelled the judiciary under Larijani a "family institution". On Tuesday, pro-Ahmadinejad supporters were reported by the conservative Javan Online site to have gathered in front of the judiciary's office in Tehran, protesting against the arrest. Before leaving Tehran on a historic visit to Egypt, Iran's first president to go there since 1979, Ahmadinejad said: "The judiciary should be the judiciary of the nation and not one special family's private institute." The official departure ceremony in Tehran was not attended by any representatives from Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's office. Analysts say Ahmadinejad's revelations in parliament were directed at Iran's supreme leader, who cannot be publicly criticised by officials and is known for intransigence. Hossein Bastani, at BBC Persian, wrote that Ahmadinejad was sending a message to Khamenei that if he refuses to intervene on the president's behalf whenever he is at odds with his rivals, the ayatollah should expect "irretrievable blows" to the Islamic republic. In delivering his inflammatory speech, the president was defying Khamenei who a few weeks ago warned officials against bickering, saying those who bring disputes to public attention are "betraying" the revolution. Iranian parliamentarians have previously attempted a number of times to impeach Ahmadinejad but their latest bid in November was blocked when Khamenei came to the president's rescue, saying that such a move would play into the hands of Iran's enemies. The ayatollah, who has the final say on all state matters, is an erstwhile patron of Ahmadinejad and despite several attempts by the latter to defy him publicly, is believed to prefer a smooth departure for the lame-duck president on face-saving grounds. But as the presidential vote in June approaches, Ahmadinejad has shown increasing signs of defiance and disobedience as he struggles to preserve his dwindling power. Under Iranian law, he cannot run for a third term. Larijani, meanwhile, is enjoying a great deal of influence and is seen as a potential frontrunner in the election.
####2013 June 02####Iranian police arrest supporters of reformist presidential candidate####Iranian police have arrested several people campaigning for a reformist candidate in this month's presidential election, an aide said on Sunday, as a senior official pledged to impose ideological limitations on the race. Police picked up several supporters of Hasan Rowhani after he delivered a speech on Saturday night, his campaign manager, Mohammad Reza Nematzadeh, told the semi-official Mehr news agency. "Some people were detained on the street after leaving the meeting," he said. The 14 June election is to choose a replacement for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who cannot run for a third term as president. Authorities have already pared down the list of candidates to eight, disqualifying Ahmadinejad's top aide and a former president who could have galvanised opposition to the harsh clerical system. That was a clear indication that Iran's rulers did not want an open contest that could end up in a disputed outcome of the type that set off widespread riots when Ahmadinejad was re-elected in 2009. On Sunday, after the arrests, a top official warned that Rowhani and others would be limited in their election drive. "Police will confront individuals who have counter-revolutionary behaviour" during campaigning, said the Iranian police chief, General Ismail Moghadam, according to the police website. "It is natural that police have carried out their tasks." An exile-based Iranian opposition website reported that authorities had arrested at least seven people who attended Rowhani's campaign appearance. It said the arrests were made after participants chanted slogans calling for the release of Mir Hossein Mousavi, an opposition leader and candidate in the disputed 2009 election, who has been under house arrest for more than two years. A council of advisers to the influential former reformist president Mohammad Khatami has urged Rowhani to unite with the other major reform-leaning candidate, Mohamed Reza Aref. A statement on Khatami's personal website expressed hope that the two could form a "united front" to field a single nominee. Nematzadeh, Rowhani's spokesman, said the two candidates had not met to discuss the possibility. Aref's star has been rising since his performance in a Friday debate of the eight candidates, restoring some energy to the reform movement after their main candidate, the former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, was disqualified. Also on Sunday, four aides to another candidate, Saeed Jalili, were injured in a road accident. Jalili, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, is considered a frontrunner in the campaign. Iran is among the world's leaders in the number of road accidents per capita. More than 20,000 people are killed on the roads there every year.
####2013 June 05####Iran election candidates unite against quiz format of TV debate####When the eight candidates standing in Iran's forthcoming election returned to the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB)'s studio for a second live debate on Wednesday, one element was missing: there was no sign of the multiple-choice questions of the first round that had led many viewers, and even some participants, to comment it had been more like a quiz show than a live TV debate. Last week, newspaper headlines in Tehran were focused on the controversies about the format of the debate, rather than the candidates' economic policies. With eight candidates competing during an extremely tight election calendar, it was never going to be easy for the state-run television network to find a format that would successfully feature all contenders on stage at the same time. To the dismay of the candidates and voters, the idea of a quiz-like element was not a success. "In honour of the dear people of my country I will sit here, but I will answer none of your test questions," said Mohammad-Reza Aref, a pro-reform candidate who was first to object on Friday. As the broadcaster's trusted moderator threw a string of multiple-choice questions at the candidates, Aref refused to answer many of them, saying he had no comment. In the final part of the programme, the candidates were shown pictures on a screen and were asked to say the first thing that came into their heads. One mistook a picture of a mining scene for a tourist scene. Hasan Rouhani, the only cleric among the eight candidates, described the format as "insulting" and demeaning to viewers. Mohsen Rezaee, a former commander of the elite revolutionary guards, echoed Aref's frustration. "I am a patient person and I can tolerate a lot," he said. "With these repetitive, discontinuous, short, one-to-three minute answers, the people are being harmed and the eight people up here are being insulted." A barrage of jokes followed Friday's debate on social networking websites with one suggesting the contenders would probably be asked to show their painting skills in the next session. On Wednesday, when the candidates gathered for a second round of debate, this time on the subject of culture and society, the format had completely changed. The seating of the candidates was chosen after a draw and each was given four minutes to give a speech on his main cultural and social policies. The remaining seven were then asked to comment on the speaker's speech. It soon became clear that the contest, which is less than 10 days away, is shaping up to be a race between Hassan Rouhani and Mohammad-Reza Aref on the pro-reform side and Saeed Jalili and Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf on the other, representing the conservatives close to the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The remaining four showed little ability to challenge their rivals' views. Aref, a former vice-president under reformist president Mohammad Khatami, seemed to position himself as the most outspoken candidate on the subject of state repression against students and academics as well as online censorship and restrictions on media and publishing books. During his speech, Aref also expressed condolences for the death earlier in the week of Ayatollah Jalal al-Din Taheri, a dissident cleric. During Taheri's funeral on Tuesday, a group of participants chanted "death to the dictator," an apparent reference to Khamenei. There is speculation that Aref and Rouhani might eventually form a coalition and only one of them stand in the election on 14 June. Saeed Jalili, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, came across as the most hardline figure willing to keep restrictions on media in place and unapologetic about the state's crackdown on students and intellectuals. It is generally thought in Iran that Jalili is Khamenei's favourite in the race but during a speech on the anniversary of the death of Ayatollah Rouhollah Khomeini in Tehran on Tuesday, he said: "The foreign media will soon begin to say that Khamenei prefers one of the candidates. This is wrong. I have no favourite candidate... Any vote by people will be a vote for the Islamic Republic." The candidates are due to meet again on Friday for their final live TV debate.
####2013 June 07####Hassan Rowhani: lone cleric injects life into the race for Iran's presidency####Hassan Rowhani, one of the eight candidates approved to run for the Iranian presidency, has long been considered a centrist conservative, but over the past week of the campaign he has shown more of his reformist colours. The lone cleric in the race, he is also the candidate with the best chance of winning consensus support from Iran's beleaguered reformist camp. Those who explicitly identify as reformists have been all but eliminated from Iran's political system since the protests over the 2009 vote that was officially won by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Now, local media outlets are full of statements by reformists saying they will form a coalition with Rowhani and another less popular (though openly reformist) candidate, Mohammad Reza Aref, whereby one of them – almost certainly Rowhani – will be declared the standard bearer to avoid splitting the progressive vote. "We will open all the locks which have been fastened upon people's lives during the past eight years," Rowhani said during a speech on 1 June in the north Tehran neighbourhood of Jamaran. "You, dear students and hero youth, are the ones who have come to restore the national economy and improve the people's living standards. We will bring back our country to the dignity of the past." Rowhani, who may have already had a progressive bent due to his long-standing relationship with reformist ex-president Mohammad Khatami, has been engaging in such talk in televised interviews and debates all week. The serene-looking cleric has thereby generated at least a faint spark in a reformist camp that has been moribund for some time. Tuesday night, in a 30-minute documentary more biography than manifesto, he verged on crossing Iran's media "red lines" as he criticised the harassment of Iranian civilians by "plainclothes people" – a clear reference to the Basij militia – and the country's "securitised atmosphere". He also poured scorn on Ahmadinejad's record, though that is by now a million miles from any red line. Elsewhere in the documentary, Rowhani, who is campaigning on the slogan Government of Proficiency and Hope, talked of "interaction with the world" and gender equality. "In my government, differences between women and men won't be tolerated," he said. In an interview on state TV on 27 May that received little attention in the west, Rowhani, Iran's lead nuclear negotiator during Khatami's 1997-2005 administration, blamed the nezaam (ruling system) of the Islamic Republic for the failure to engage in direct talks with the US. "[Non-negotiation] was the decision and, thus, the US was set aside," he said. When asked directly if it was the US that had in fact taken the first step towards negotiation, Rowhani simply replied, "Yes." This contradicts the prevailing orthodoxy not only in the west, but the official line in Iran as well. In another incident on Tuesday, Rowhani visited Isfahan to attend the funeral of reformist-leaning cleric Ayatollah Jalaledin Taheri instead of the state event commemorating the anniversary of the death of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, father of the Islamic Republic. Along with cries of "Death to the dictator" directed at Khomeini's successor, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, crowds chanted: "Isfahan in one word: Rowhani. That is the end [of discussion]." Notably, the Rowhani campaign did not try to play down the candidate's attendance at what has been described as the largest anti-government protest in the country in more than two years. The campaign subsequently tweeted, "People of #Isfahan broke out in chants in favour of #Rowhani." Though Rowhani may stimulate the reformists to back him and mobilise disenfranchised voters to the polling venues, he is no firebrand reformer. He has so far cleverly toed the line between appeasing the establishment by showing due deference to Khamenei and exhibiting his revolutionary and Islamic bona fides. The documentary described Rowhani's role in fomenting dissent against Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and his association with key figures in the development of Iranian revolutionary ideology, such as Ali Shariati and Mehdi Bazargan. The Shah's notorious intelligence service, SAVAK, was discovered after the revolution to have been monitoring Rowhani. Although opinion polling in Iran is fraught with difficulties, and the results are notoriously unreliable, many news websites and media organisations run informal polls online. Over the last ten days, Rowhani has come out on top more often than not, while the candidate widely regarded as Khamenei's favourite, incumbent nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili, has only scored single-digit points in almost all cases. With the conservatives having failed to unify and rally behind one or two preferred candidates as expected, the prospect of reformists snatching enough of the electorate to trigger a second-round runoff seems an increasing possibility. However, almost all analysts still place Rowhani's better-known conservative rivals well ahead of him in the race. Currently Tehran's popular mayor, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf; former foreign minister Ali Akbar Velayati, now Khamenei's top international affairs adviser; and the arch-conservative Jalili appear to stand a better chance of winning. Many Iranians are convinced that the 2009 vote was grossly manipulated to ensure Ahmadinejad's re-election over his reformist challenger, Mir Hossein Mousavi. Given that history, it's not clear that Rowhani would be allowed to take office even if he managed to score a victory at the polls. Asked if she thinks Rowhani has any chance, Ziba, 26, a self-employed businesswoman with family connections to the Khatami administration, says, "No way. Because all the people who think like him won't be voting anyway … Besides, they wouldn't allow him to win." That fear was underscored by the Associated Press report that seven – later revised to "several" – aides working on Rowhani's campaign were arrested at the Jamaran rally on Saturday. The next day, Gen. Ismail Moghadam, chief of the national police, declared that his forces would not hesitate to "confront individuals who commit counterrevolutionary behaviour." He held up what transpired at the rally as an example of the police carrying out that "task." Still, some self-identified reformists are holding out hope for Rowhani. "He thinks like we do," says Zahra, 29, the daughter of an Iran-Iraq war martyr. "He's very intelligent. He's been biding his time." Others are far more sceptical. Thirty-year-old Aziz says, "We've had eight years of Rafsanjani, eight years of Khatami. Where did that get us? Things are worse now than ever. "If Rowhani wins, so what? If Ghalibaf wins, what real difference will it make? Sure, there may be some small changes, but still the Supreme Leader controls which direction the country is going in." For the moment, Rowhani has injected some life into what looked to be a very humdrum campaign. Will the reformists openly back him in the end? Doing so might serve only to legitimise the election to the benefit of Iran's staunchly conservative establishment. Names have been changed
####2013 June 11####Iran elections: former presidents endorse moderate Hassan Rouhani####Iran's battered reformists have thrown their weight behind Hassan Rouhani, a moderate cleric favouring openness and improved relations with the west, who has emerged as the dark horse candidate in Friday's presidential election. The former presidents Mohammad Khatami, seen as the leader of Iran's reformist movement, and Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani publicly endorsed Rouhani on Tuesday. "Bearing in mind my duty to the country and the fate of our honourable nation, I will give my vote to my esteemed brother Dr Rouhani," Khatami wrote. "I ask all, in particular the reformists and those who seek the dignity and elevation of the nation … to see Dr Rouhani's candidacy as a suitable chance for their demands to be met." The endorsement of Rouhani has revived hopes among reformers seeking to return to the forefront of Iranian politics after the domination of hardliners during Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's eight-year presidency. Last month as hundreds of hopefuls registered to stand for election, Khatami declined to run and declared support for Rafsanjani, who put his name forward but was disqualified on the grounds that he was too "feeble" to govern the country. Critics said the decision against Rafsanjani's candidacy was politically motivated and stemmed from his rift with Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Electoral officials also barred a close ally of Ahmadinejad, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei. The president promised to take up Mashaei's case with Khamenei but has since remained unusually quiet. After Rafsanjani's exclusion it was not clear whether reformists would unite behind another candidate, but it emerged later that Khatami and Rafsanjani were choosing between Rouhani and another moderate candidate, Mohammad Reza Aref. On Monday Aref said he was withdrawing from the race at the request of Khatami, in what appeared to be a co-ordinated plan by reformers to avoid a split in the vote. Unlike the reformists, Iran's conservatives have so far failed to unite. Of the other six candidates besides Rouhani and Aref, at least two identify themselves as independents. Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel, a so-called "principlist", also quit the race this week but did not endorse a particular contender. Tehran's mayor, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, is among the conservative candidates seen as having a good chance of winning or entering a runoff with Rouhani. The 65-year-old Rouhani is a former chief nuclear negotiator who has served as secretary of Iran's supreme national security council for 16 years. On Rouhani's watch Iran enjoyed better relations with the west and allowed more scrutiny of its nuclear programme. In three debates on national television and his campaign speeches Rouhani has come across as strongly critical of Iran's current trajectory at home and abroad. He has expressed support for freedom of the press and said he would work to find a way out of the stalemate over Iran's nuclear dossier, which has prompted western powers to punish Tehran with unprecedented sanctions. "I do not approve of the current foreign policy. We should try to have good international interactions to gradually reduce the sanctions and finally remove them," Rouhani said at a recent rally in the western province of Kurdistan. Rouhani's supporters wear purple wristbands in a move reminiscent of the previous election, in 2009, when the opposition leader Mir Hossein Mousavi created massive momentum by going green. In a heated TV debate last Friday Rouhani openly criticised Iran's handling of the nuclear talks. "All of our problems stem from this – that we didn't make the utmost effort to prevent the nuclear dossier from going to the UN security council," he said. "It is good to have centrifuges running, provided people's lives and livelihoods are also running." To Rouhani's dismay, Iran's current top nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, is also standing in a vote that many believe might turn into a referendum over Iran's nuclear programme. Many view Jalili as Khamenei's preferred conservative candidate but the supreme leader has said he has no favourite and sees any vote as a vote for the Islamic republic. During Friday's TV debate Jalili's handling of Iran's nuclear negotiations came under attack from Ali Akbar Velayati, a conservative figure who advises Khamenei on foreign policy. "What people are seeing, Mr Jalili, is that you have not gone forward even one step [in nuclear negotiations], and the pressure of international sanctions still exists. The art of diplomacy is to preserve our nuclear rights, not to see sanctions increase," Velayati said in comments that surprised many viewers. In the absence of a explicitly opposition figure, however, many see the slate of candidates in Friday's vote as lacklustre, though there is no active plan for a boycott. The elephant in the room of the Iranian election is the fact that two candidates in the disputed 2009 vote, Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, remain under house arrest.
####2013 June 12####To vote or not to vote? Iranians wary after revolts and uprisings turn sour####Lalehzar street, in southern Tehran, was once a hub of vibrant nightlife, a colourful accumulation of cabarets and cafes for the pre-1979 generation. Now it is given over to altogether more prosaic scenes: electrical shops, each a mirror of the next, forming a monotonous string of appliances, price tags and desultory shoppers. For Ebrahim, a journalist in his 50s, it is a fitting narrative of Iranian pre-revolutionary nostalgia, a gateway for today's disenchantment with conservative rule on the eve of Friday's elections. "All the chandeliers you see in these shops used to be inside the cabarets. But now they are inside houses. It's a symbolic change. People drink inside their homes and pray outside in public to get the jobs. In the past, people used to pray at home and drink at the cabaret," Ebrahim recounts. "If you want to summarise what happened here, it is that the public was turned private and society is living inside out." As Iranians prepare to vote for a successor to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the ghosts of the past are unavoidable. Four years ago the presidential election turned into the biggest political uprising in Iran since the Islamic revolution 30 years earlier. Now, for those who hoped both acts of insurrection would lead to a better future the options are decidedly limited. On the ballot paper, there is a list of six men, all vetted and approved by the clerical authorities, and only one of them, Hassan Rouhani, has any claim at all to be interested in change and in opening up Iran. On the streets the revolutionary fervour that gripped the capital for two intoxicating weeks in 2009 is absent, the chances of a repeat performance small. Ilham, a recent university graduate, tells me on our way to dinner with her family in a middle-class neighbourhood of north Tehran: "A few days after the [2009] protests, we went into a depression mood. I remember I said to myself I don't want anything to do with politics. Nowadays, we tell ourselves what's the function of voting in the elections?" At her family house, her mother and brother had just come from a Rouhani rally. For her mother, a devoted leftist in her mid-50s, remaining active is an antidote to Ebrahim's sense of political disenchantment. For three years after 1979, she was in prison after taking part in the revolution. When she came out she was destined to stay on the margins, failing to find any government job. Her brother, a political prisoner himself, ended up seeking asylum abroad. And so did her sister. She chose to stay. "She never talks about her experience in prison, but my father says she is traumatised. But 2009 brought it all back to her. I felt she was happy again," says Ilham, who herself was involved in the heady days of June 2009. From Tehran to Cairo The Iranian revolution offers a counterpoint to Egypt's tumultuous events of the past three years. Progressive Iranians saw their revolution turn Islamic in 1979, and it was decades before they could once again believe in reformist politics. For progressive Egyptians, with a more recent encounter with revolt, the transformation of the uprising from a moment of deep political change to an Islamist ascent to power is deeply regrettable. In Tehran, Fatemeh Sadeghi, a political scientist who taught at the Islamic Azad University of Karaj, says: "I defend the 1979 revolution when everyone slams it because at the beginning it was like Egypt. It was a real moment of politics." Sadeghi, who was suspended from her teaching post for her progressive writings, refers to the idealistic moment when the Iranian revolution was set to establish social justice before it became a project of identity politics. In her modern apartment in a suburb of Tehran, Sadeghi spoke of the parallels of the Iranian and Egyptian revolutions. "When Egypt's [revolution] happened we were excited but we were wondering from the beginning about the next step. It's like this. Young people make revolutions and Islamists take control. We were euphoric with revolutions, but what happens later?" For now, people like Sadeghi are left to wonder about the point and purpose of voting, and whether the ballot box can bring change for the better. Firoozeh, a young filmmaker from southern Iran, has worked on a documentary now awaiting post-production. The film tackles the taboo issue of prostitution in Tehran and she has been advised to delay the work and wait for a reformist government. Mahmoud Bakhshi, an artist in Tehran, is similarly in a constant state of negotiation with Iran's conservative leadership about his artistic oeuvre, which cuts a fine line between political humour and propaganda. Arang Keshavarzian, a New York university professor, says: "All elections, and I've no reason to think this one is different, are simultaneously a moment for the regime to seek to define the contours of politics and a space for citizens to engage in political discussions and actions. As such, they are unique moments and social spaces that are always pregnant with hope and fear." Keshavarzian recalls how, even in 2001, at perhaps the high watermark of Iranian reformism under Mohammad Khatami, that president's re-election bid in June of that year was briefly threatened by a progressive boycott as people questioned the efficacy of his reforms – only to re-engage with him on the eve of the polls. Transcending the disappointment over the end of reformism, however, is a deep-held sense of citizenship that does prompt Iranians to vote. "I try to make the best out of being here. That's why we will have to vote," says Gulzar, an artist who has tried going abroad to study but failed to get a visa. For Sadeghi there seems there could be a moment to grab. "People [have become] disenchanted with how the state is controlling Islam. And when there is a vacuum in hegemonic power you have to overcome that depression and make an ambush. But you have to be patient. This is politics. Politics means patience."
####2013 June 12####Iran's Saeed Jalili: anointed successor or convenient bogeyman?####A cosmetic touch-up augmented the forehead of the arch-conservative presidential candidate Saeed Jalili during the recent series of televised debates leading up to Iran's election, on 14 June. As the Islamic government's 48-year-old nuclear negotiator elaborated on his plans to resolve the country's diplomatic and socio-economic quandaries by resuscitating the ideals of the 1979 revolution, viewers at home noted the absence of a telltale mark at the centre of his forehead. "It's like Harry Potter and his scar," one voter observed. "He doesn't want to let people know he's The One." Impressed into Jalili's face is the shape of a turbah, the small earthen stone Shia Muslims traditionally rest their heads on during daily prayers. For the fervently pious, the indentation is considered a badge of honour. But for those in charge of Jalili's public image, it is something to be concealed, powdered and covered by a lock of grey hair – an indication that the candidate's religious zeal is "too scary", as another viewer said, "even for Iranian TV". Known for his monastic lifestyle and unquestioning devotion to Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Jalili was touted as a frontrunner in an election in which loyalty and tractability appear to trump the more conventional leadership qualities displayed by other conservative candidates. Former associates say he is a devout believer whose education and background more befit a seminary than Iran's intricate corridors of power. While those in the top echelons of the country's ruling elite are typically more Machiavellian than devout, Jalili's faith is authentic. "With him, it's not just rhetoric," said a source from the diplomatic community. "He really is a principlist." These characteristics are thought to ingratiate Jalili with Khamenei, who strives to avoid a repeat of the insubordination he experienced with the outgoing president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. But as election day draws near, observers are questioning the role Jalili is ordained to play. Is he the anointed, obedient successor to Ahmadinejad, or is he a convenient bogeyman released by the regime to frighten moderate voters into participating in an election they may otherwise have boycotted? "Jalili is consciously constructed as a scarecrow to put the resigned, indifferent and undecided voters in panic and to achieve a high turnout," said Nima Mina, a senior lecturer in Iranian studies at SOAS, the University of London. He compares Jalili's role to that of the French far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen in that country's 2002 presidential election, which saw a game-changing turnout by leftwing voters opposed to Le Pen's policies. "To the leader, it would not matter which of the candidates is successful in the end," Mina adds. "Jalili is a faithful soldier, and is willing to endure it all." In 2009, Khamenei experienced the most serious challenge to his leadership in his 24 years as supreme leader. Millions of voters, joined by prominent politicians and religious figures, disputed the result of the presidential election, precipitating a violent crackdown from which many voters and reformist politicians never recovered. Though keen on preventing such errors this time around, Khamenei is stressing the importance of voter participation to give his increasingly isolated and economically ailing regime a much-needed legitimacy boost. In a speech on 7 June commemorating the death of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, he urged Iranians to vote, warning: "They [enemies of Iran] wish either a low turnout in the election or sedition to emerge afterwards." The need to engineer a well-attended election may be the supreme leader's reason for tacitly supporting Jalili, if only to energise the masses against his fundamentalist worldview, analysts say. Born in Masshad, a place of holy importance for the world's Shias, Jalili boasts a lifelong record of unflinching sacrifice and service to the Islamic republic. Near the end of Iran's bloody war with Iraq, the then 21-year-old injured his right leg in an offensive against Basra known as Operation Karbala 5. In Sahrai hospital, in the city of Shalamcheh, medical staff were unable to treat the leg owing to a dearth of supplies, and were forced to amputate. Jalili is thus considered a jaanbaaz, someone upon whom is conferred a type of elevated status because of their suffering in the "holy defence" against Saddam Hussein's forces. These veteran credentials make Jalili the choice of some of the country's most radical cohorts. Kayhan, the influential daily newspaper closely aligned with Khamenei, has described him as a "super-Hezbollahi" – a good old-fashioned revolution-era ideologue. Putting religious ideals into political practice was also the main focus of Jalili's education at Tehran's Imam Sadeq University, where his thesis explored the "foreign policy of the Prophet". Originally an all-male institution, the university blends the teachings of the seminaries found in the religious city of Qom with traditional academia to educate a new prototype of pious technocrats. The goal, said one former faculty member, was to "breed students that think like the nezaam" (the ruling establishment) and feed them into the foreign ministry and media. In keeping with his theology-tinged education, Jalili recently gained the endorsement of Ayatollah Mezbah Yazdi, 79, a cleric from Qom and an influential force among the powerful Revolutionary Guards (IRGC). In 2005, Yazdi described himself as the spiritual father to Ahmadinejad, who eventually won that election. In addition, Jalili is favoured by a younger group of disciples of Mesbah's Jebhe Paydari (Steadfast Front). Members of this newly formed fundamentalist grouping identify themselves as supporters of the "true Ahmadinejad", harking back to the platform that first won him the presidency in 2005. "Jalili is immensely popular among some extremist young and religious types who support his rigid world view when it comes to Iran's nuclear programme," said Arash Ghafouri, a campaign strategist. "Many fans promote him on weblogs as well as pages on social networks such as Facebook … They have some offices around the country and campaign for Jalili in various cities and countries." In this regard, Jalili differs from another candidate, the former foreign minister Ali Akbar Velayati, whose rivalry with Jalili intensified on Monday after the withdrawal of the conservative candidate Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel. Appealing to an older faction of rural and middle-class voters, Velayati, 67, has more political experience than Jalili, a strength he deployed with startling force during the third round of televised debates, last Sunday. "You were in charge of the nuclear case for several years, and we haven't taken a single step forward," he told Jalili, criticising his staunchly anti-western "resistance" policy as Iran's chief nuclear negotiator. "Diplomacy isn't about toughness or stubbornness." On the same day, Velayati won the endorsement of the prominent Qom Seminary Scholars Association, casting further doubt over Jalili's frontrunner status. "Many issues in Iran right now are directly related to the Iran nuclear programme, and Jalili is one of the representatives of this plan," said Ghafouri. "Although whatever Jalili did was what the supreme leader wanted, the average Iranian is not satisfied with the consequences of the severe sanctions. To be elected president, a candidate should prove himself able to fix [what] the country is faced with." In an increasingly competitive campaign, in which the sanctions-plagued economy is a crucial factor, Jalili is failing to present a coherent solution to the problem he is accused of perpetuating. His "seven-point plan" to address the issue flounders in vague suggestions, such as "relying on the rules of the Islamic economy", and has been criticised by journalists for "failing to adhere to any known economic model". Such mediocrity appears to be a lifelong trait for Jalili, whose sole distinguishing quality – according to a source who recalls his student days at Imam Sadeq – is piousness. The source said: "He wasn't our top guy. He's not an intellect. He's not even a top diplomat. But he's a true believer."
####2013 June 12####Iran imposes severe restrictions on media election coverage####Severe restrictions have been imposed in Iran on foreign and domestic media to ensure that coverage of Friday's presidential election is tightly controlled. International media watchdogs and journalists say most visa applications from foreign news organisations to cover the contest have been rejected or simply ignored. Press TV, an Iranian channel, quoted an interior ministry official on Wednesday as saying that over 1,000 journalists will be covering the election. But a concerted effort is apparently under way to limit coverage, especially by western media – perhaps out of fear of a repeat of the protests that followed the disputed 2009 vote. Reporters Without Borders, a Paris-based organisation, said on Wednesday that the Iranian authorities had not issued visas to the vast majority of foreign journalists who requested them. Iranian media were subject to "harassment, restrictions and censorship". Journalists who have obtained visas have been prevented from moving freely in Tehran, banned from meetings of candidates supported by reformers and from contacting government opponents or the families of political prisoners, RWB added. Visas are usually issued for one week. British journalists have suffered badly, apparently because of the tense relations between Tehran and London, where both countries' embassies are closed. Tehran is also deeply hostile to BBC Persian, which is hugely popular despite being unable to operate openly inside Iran. Its staff and their relatives are regularly subjected to official intimidation. The Guardian's visa application was rejected on the grounds of what sources in Tehran described as a "blanket ban" on UK media. The only mainstream UK journalist known to have got a visa is Channel 4 presenter Jon Snow, who interviewed Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the outgoing president, in 2009. The Financial Times, New York Times and Washington Post have correspondents based in Tehran but they operate under often severe restrictions. Ali Ahani, Iran's ambassador to France, said he had granted 30 of 100 visa requests. But no more than a handful of visas appear to have been given to US media. Iran's culture and Islamic guidance minister, Mohammad Hosseini, said last week that his government would "closely examine" 200 applications from foreign journalists to keep out "Zionist spies". Reza Moini of RWB said: "They take a few well-known journalists and TV channels to demonstrate that they are being open, but they keep out almost all the others who want to come to Iran." Obtaining a visa is no guarantee of being able to work freely. "Each time you go out, you need permission from the ministry of culture and Islamic guidance," one correspondent told RWB. "You have to tell them who you want to see, when and where. And to cap it all, you are watched by the government-imposed interpreters." Kelly Niknejad of Tehran Bureau, which has a network of anonymous correspondents inside Iran, said: "The Iranian authorities have always used their power to grant visas and press credentials as a stick to get journalists to fall in line." Independent and opposition voices remain under threat. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty said its Persian-language service, Radio Farda, documented nine cases in May in which family members of their staff had been harassed by the Iranian government. The Committee to Protect Journalists, the New York-based media watchdog, accused the Iranian government of seeking to deprive its citizens of meaningful news coverage by blocking news websites. "The Iranian regime fears any voice that could challenge its official narrative, whether a local journalist or an international journalist at a Tehran hotel," the CPJ deputy director Rob Mahoney said on Wednesday. "Yes, they use different tactics to restrict international journalists, but the outcome is the same: Iranian voters denied essential information before Friday's vote." A BBC News spokesman said: "We are disappointed that the BBC was not granted any visas to visit Iran to cover the election as it would have enabled us to give a more accurate and up to date perspective from the country. However, we will draw on the full resources and expertise of our London based staff in the Persian Service on global and domestic news outlets to provide extensive coverage."
####2013 June 13####Iran elections: death of Neda Agha-Soltan haunts voters####One image sticks in the mind of many Iranians who remain undecided on whether to vote in Friday's presidential election. It is of Neda Agha-Soltan, a young woman whose death was captured on amateur camera and circulated around the world in 2009, encapsulating a nation's struggle for freedom in the aftermath of the last election, which many believe was rigged. "These days, her image keeps coming back to my mind," a Tehrani citizen said via online chat on Facebook. "Am I betraying her if I vote? I don't know, but many of my friends are saying we won't achieve anything by simply boycotting the election." To vote or not to vote for Hassan Rouhani, the sole reformist-backed candidate standing in the race, is the dilemma shared by hundreds of thousands of people who lost faith in the fairness of Iranian polls. For families who lost loved ones in the aftermath of the 2009 election, the buildup to the vote is adding salt to the wounds. At least 100 protesters are believed to have been killed in the protests. Unlike Neda, whose death resonated globally, prompting world leaders to comment and inspiring films and books, the identities of a large number of those who lost their lives remain unfamiliar to Iranians. The Iranian journalist Masih Alinejad, currently exiled in Oxford, has devoted the past four years to identifying the families of the lesser-known victims and documenting details of their deaths through interviews with family and friends. She has catalogued details of 56 dead protesters. "These are the only people whose families have dared to speak out," Alinejad told the Guardian. "But I'm sure there are dozens more who were killed and we haven't even heard of their names even today." The human right group Amnesty International said on Wednesday that Iranian authorities had once again stepped up their clampdown on activists and campaigners before the election. Journalists, lawyers and members of Iran's religious and ethnic minorities had been harassed, Amnesty said. "The escalation in repression is an outrageous attempt by the Iranian authorities to silence critics ahead of the presidential election," said Amnesty's Middle East and North Africa director, Philip Luther. "The surge in recent violations underlines Iran's continued and brazen flouting of human rights standards through its persecution of political dissidents and betrays the glaring absence of a meaningful human rights discourse in the election campaign." Casualties of the 2009 protests Profiles by Masih Alinejad Shabnam Sohrabi The 34-year-old was killed in December 2009 when a black vehicle ran her down. Her mother initially feared speaking up about her daughter's death, but broke her silence and talked to the Where Is My Vote website. "Shabnam had a strong body; I cannot imagine her being crushed under the wheels of a police vehicle," she said. She explained the process of collecting her daughter's body. "I looked everywhere, including all the hospitals. I finally discovered that she had been taken to Rasoul-e Akram hospital in Tehran, but there were no signs of her there and nobody explained why. After 20 days we received a phone call saying that we could collect her body from the Kahrizak morgue and bury her." Kianoosh Asa A petrochemical engineering student at the University of Science and Technology in Tehran. Asa, 25, of Kurdish origin, went missing after attending a demonstration on 15 July 2009. Ten days later his body was delivered to the coroner's office and his family were informed. Kianoosh Asa's family published an open letter to the head of the judiciary and demanded an investigation into his death. "Eyewitnesses have informed us that Kianoosh was seen to have received a bullet wound on one side of his body. However, in the coroner's office his body was seen to bear traces of another bullet wound in his neck. The disturbing question is who was behind the second shot," they wrote. Maryam Soudbar Atbatan A 21-year old university student from Karaj who died at home after being beaten on the head with a truncheon during a demonstration in Tehran on 20 June 2009. Her family were coerced into silence, but three years later her father spoke out. "We were worried for our other children's safety. That is why we kept her case in our heart, but did not talk about her. Maryam went to university as usual on 20 June 2009. She was in good health and had no medical complaints. She returned home and died in her room that very night," he said. "I don't have any idea why they beat my daughter. After she died, her friends told us Maryam had been bashed on the head with a truncheon and did not feel well. Her friends had helped her to her feet and she had felt better. When she returned home, she did not tell us what had happened. During the night she died in her room." Hamid Hossein Beik Araghi The state-run Keyhan newspaper and Fars news agency described Araghi as a member of the Basij militia. His mother, Fatemeh Sarpariyan, denied the allegation. His family were shown photographs to identify his body. "His face was full of blood, his front teeth were broken and one side of his face was bruised; he had been shot in the chest and all the pictures were full of blood. For me, his mother, his photos were unbearable to look at and I fainted." Ali Hassanpour A married father of two children aged 14 and 21. He was shot in the face and died on Azadi Square during demonstrations on 15 June 2009 after helping another person who had been injured. His body was handed over to his family for burial 104 days later. A picture of his body covered with blood and lying on the ground among the protesters was published in the media on the day of the incident. His wife, Ladan Mostafaei, said that when she showed her husband's photo to the authorities they denied any knowledge of him. "I have told the judicial authorities that, according to countless witnesses, my husband was shot from the rooftop of the 117 Battalion of Ashura Basij building. The arms experts of the judicial authorities have confirmed that a Kalashnikov was the rifle used to kill him." Hossein Akhtarzand A 32-year-old resident of the city of Isfahan who participated in the protests and was beaten and killed by the militia. A commander in the special unit in Isfahan reported that Akhtarzand had fallen from the third floor of a building while under the influence of drugs. In the first days of post-election violence, witnesses posted photos of Akhtarzand online showing that he had been badly beaten on his left arm and left leg and the right side of his back, and had a deep laceration down his right-hand side (as certified in the sheet provided by the coroner). Akhtarzand's family remained silent for two years before his brother, Javad, exposed the killing of his brother by the authorities. "In the city of Isfahan, as in many other cities, protests flared up against the June 2009 elections. Owing to the heavy-handed approach adopted by the officials, people ran for their lives and Hossein tried to hide in a clinic building. However, he was discovered by the security agents and tossed down from the top of the building, the claim being that he had jumped of his own accord."
####2013 June 13####Iran elections: 'wherever Rouhani speaks there's a frenzy'####Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has called on all Iranians to vote in Friday's elections, "even if for reasons they don't want to support the Islamic ruling establishment". "They do want to support their country though. Everyone must turn out," Khamenei said on Wednesday. Until recently a high turnout seemed unlikely. Since 21 May, when the guardian council announced the eight approved presidential candidates – excluding two prominent figures, the former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, a close ally of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad – the campaign had appeared to rouse little public interest. According to a journalist in Tehran, that has changed in the capital. "You will not believe the election buzz in Tehran today. Everyone is talking about elections and who to vote for and everyone is advocating for [Hassan] Rouhani and trying to convince people to vote for him." The campaign of the relatively moderate Rouhani, who served as chief nuclear negotiator under the reformist former president Mohammad Khatami, received a boost on Tuesday when Mohammad Reza Aref, Khatami's senior vice-president, bowed out of the race. Later in the day Rouhani received explicit endorsements from both Khatami and Rafsanjani. Of the popular mood swing that followed, the Tehran journalist said, "I never saw this coming. Everyone was so without hope and talking about not ever voting again, and this morning things have changed 180 degrees. It's like someone put something in the water last night and this morning people are just different." According to another source in Tehran, "The atmosphere just completely changed after Khatami and Hashemi put their support behind Rouhani. People are really excited. Wherever Rouhani speaks there's a frenzy. Today in Mashhad it was like four years ago with the appearance of Mousavi." Mir Hossein Mousavi, whose defeat by Ahmadinejad in the 2009 race is widely believed to have been rigged, attracted crowds to his campaign rallies far outnumbering those reported during the first two and a half weeks of this year's campaign. The source continued: "Even those who were undecided or completely set against voting are saying they want to cast a ballot to make sure that anyone like Jalili doesn't win." Saeed Jalili, Iran's current nuclear negotiator, is regarded as the preferred choice of the regime's ultra-conservative leadership. 'You never know, maybe they might actually count the votes' Less than a day earlier, Shiva, a 26-year-old resident of north Tehran who plans to leave Iran soon to continue her studies in the United States, described the dispirited mood in the capital. "How can you have faith in the process after 2009? I mean, it makes sense to go vote out of a fear that Jalili might be elected, but then … will my vote actually be counted? "We're like ants trapped in their spiderweb. As you might say abroad, we're in the middle of quite a dilemma. So there's no hope per se, but you never know, maybe they might actually count the votes. My idea is that they'd rather us think the votes didn't matter, so I want to play whatever small part I can to ensure that they lose this gamble of theirs. Of course, it's not like I'm excited or anything. It's actually a bit of a drag." Those sentiments had been echoed in the seemingly very different context of Qom, the centre of Shia religious studies, where most women move about in full-length black cloaks – the chadors that are the ultimate expression of Shia modesty. There, 50-year-old Habib Agha, one of the hundreds of thousands of Afghan refugees who fled for Iran in the bloody aftermath of the 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, still shines shoes in a tiny hole in a wall. "I can't vote, and thank God for that! I've been here 20 years, and I haven't seen an administration more bumbling and ridiculous than the current one," he said. "They don't even understand the concept of voting. Why trouble citizens with voting when the leaders have already decided on who will be chosen? "I've never seen Qom so dead around election time. Usually the area around my shoe polishing stand is littered with campaign posters, but people have figured out that voting is pointless. Want to know why? "Let me put it this way: Imagine someone comes up to me and says they want to run my store and make it better and so on. I'd say, 'Get the hell out of here,' or else I'd tell them OK and then send them on some wild goose chase. The people in power are like that. Why should they hand over what they've grown accustomed to to some other person or group of people?" On Qom's Keshavarz Boulevard, 40-year-old Javad, who runs a sandwich shop, discussed the election as he prepared a customer's lunch. "It's obvious they've already picked Saeed Jalili. Tell me, then, why I should waste my day off by standing in line at a voting booth." 'If they screw us again, we'll take to the streets' Some students at Imam Khomeini International University in Qazvin, north-east of Tehran, had a different perspective. The day after a televised debate between the eight presidential candidates, the campus computer lab was filled with students ostensibly preparing for their final exams, although everyone seemed to be engaged in heated discussion about the previous night's faceoff. "Why should we vote?" one student, Arman, asked rhetorically. "What if it's all just a joke like last time?" "We'll vote," 19-year-old Amir said from the adjacent computer terminal. "If they count the votes, then the guy we voted for will be president, and if they screw us again, we'll take to the streets again. No matter what, we won't lose – that is, unless we sit at home and let them do whatever they want." A prominent reformist news reporter, who spoke via Gchat on condition that her identity not be revealed, said: "I'm definitely voting for Rouhani, although it seems that there's a lot of public support for Ghalibaf." Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, Tehran's mayor since 2005, is a former commander of the Revolutionary Guard's air force and the national police. Often referred to as a technocrat, though he has repeatedly professed his unswerving support for the supreme-leadership system, many observers cite him as Rouhani's primary opponent. "I think people should vote," the reporter said. Referring to the regime, she added, "If they're going to cheat, they should at least have to work for it. Not voting makes their job way too easy." Asked whether she thought people would feel disenfranchised again should there be an obviously fraudulent outcome, she said: "Rouhani has assured people that what happened in 2009 won't happen again." A reader in Tehran wrote in an email: "Last week was a bit sparse but Saturday things kicked off. Both Tabriz and Tehran were full of posters, bills, large signs etc for Friday's election. I was in Tabriz [Iran's fourth-largest city] so I can attest. It is a bit overwhelming how many posters there are."
####2013 June 13####Gmail accounts in Iran hacked, says Google####Google reports it has stopped a series of attempts to hack the email accounts of tens of thousands of Iranian users in what the company believes is an attempt to influence the country's upcoming election. "For almost three weeks, we have detected and disrupted multiple email-based phishing campaigns," Eric Grosse, the vice-president for security engineering, wrote in a post on Google's blog on Wednesday. The phishing campaigns are originating in Iran, targeting users there and representing a big surge in the region's hacking activity before Iran's presidential election on Friday, Grosse said. "The timing and targeting of the campaigns suggest that the attacks are politically motivated," he said. He did not give further details. The relatively routine phishing attempts direct users to fake account maintenance pages where they are asked to give their username and password, Grosse said. Google said it used its Chrome browser to detect phishing efforts from what appears to be the same Iranian group in 2011. Iranians will vote on Friday to find a successor to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who cannot run for a third term in office. Hassan Rouhani, a moderate cleric who rejects Ahmadinejad's combative approach in world affairs, has become the frontrunner in the final days before the election after pro-reform candidate Mohammad Reza Aref pulled out on Tuesday and former presidents Mohammad Khatami and Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani threw their support behind Rouhani. Rouhani's remaining opponents are four conservatives and a hardliner.
####2013 June 13####Iranians go to polls after spirited end to presidential campaign####Iranians are voting for a new president following an election campaign that began flatly but took off when thousands poured on to the streets to show their support for their preferred candidate. Since reformists and opposition figures threw their weight behind the moderate contender Hassan Rouhani, public interest in the lone cleric running in the election has surged significantly. Videos and pictures posted online of Rouhani's campaign rallies in Tehran and other major cities such as Mashhad show scenes reminiscent – albeit on a smaller scale – of the 2009 election, when supporters of Mir Hossein Mousavi, dubbed the Green movement, created a historic momentum. Six candidates, a slate of hopefuls who qualified to stand only after an acrimonious vetting process, are competing to succeed Mahmoud Ahmadinejad after eight years in office. "We are finally bidding farewell to Ahmadinejad, and that alone is something to welcome," Mohammad, a Tehrani citizen, said via online chat on Facebook. "Regardless of the outcome, I celebrate the fact that he is finally leaving Iranian politics." The three-week campaign period, which saw candidates embarking on an extensive schedule of provincial visits and campaigners taking to the streets to spread the word, officially ended in the early hours of Thursday and polls opened on Friday morning. "At first I did not want to vote. Elections are not free in my country," said Mona, a university student in Tehran. "But I have changed my mind after seeing the euphoria in the past couple of days in the streets of Tehran. People are desperate for a change and I'm voting for Rouhani." As the polls opened, Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei urged a large turnout and said he did not "give a damn" about US suggestions that the ballot was unfair. "What is important is that everyone takes part," Khamenei said, speaking live on state television as he cast his ballot in Tehran. "Our dear nation should come [to vote] with excitement and liveliness and know that the destiny of the country is in their hands and the happiness of the country depends on them." Earlier, Khamenei, who has the final say on all state matters in the country, said: "It is possible that some do not want to support the Islamic republic but surely they want to support their own country. They should vote too." Khamenei had previously said that he would consider any vote a vote for the Islamic republic. It is the first presidential election since 2009, when protests against the official results sparked an uprising. This was followed by months of unrest and a crackdown on journalists and activists. Mousavi and another candidate, Mehdi Karroubi, are currently under house arrest. Despite a surge in the number of people deciding to vote, some still fear their vote will not be counted. Mina, a young woman from the central city of Isfahan, said: "Last time they stole our votes. What is the guarantee this time that they will count them?" On the last full day of campaigning, thousands of activists filled the streets. A video shot on Tehran's Vali-e-Asr street and posted on YouTube showed hundreds of Rouhani supporters holding up banners and chanting slogans at supporters of Saeed Jalili, a hardliner. Many prominent figures sympathetic to Rouhani have in the past few days urged undecided voters to back him, warning that lack of participating will increase Jalili's chances. Although the remaining five candidates besides Rouhani are conservative figures unlikely to bring major reform to the country's ruling system, almost all the men are critical of Ahmadinejad's government and have pledged to bring changes to the country's economic and political landscape, putting an end to an era when populist policies of the outgoing president sparked widespread controversies. Tehran's pragmatic mayor, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, is also among the conservative candidates seen as having a good chance of winning or entering a runoff with Rouhani. "On Ghalibaf's watch, Tehran has changed positively," said Akram from Tehran. "I'll vote for him because I believe he can be a good president." In the run up to the election Iranian authorities clamped down on activists and campaigners, with journalists, lawyers and members of Iran's religious and ethnic minorities facing harassment. "The escalation in repression is an outrageous attempt by the Iranian authorities to silence critics ahead of the presidential election," said Amnesty's Middle East and North Africa director, Philip Luther. "The surge in recent violations underlines Iran's continued and brazen flouting of human rights standards through its persecution of political dissidents, and betrays the glaring absence of a meaningful human rights discourse in the election campaign." On Wednesday Google's security chief warned against a "politically motivated" phishing attack on tens of thousands of Iranian users. • Names have been changed to protect the identity of the interviewees.
####2013 June 14####Iran elections: the world hopes for change, but is likely to be disappointed####Predicting the outcome of Iranian presidential elections is notoriously difficult – Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was virtually unknown when he won his first term in 2005. But aside from the near certainty of surprises the only other constant is that the outside world will be hoping to see different policies from whoever replaces the unlamented incumbent. Satisfaction is far from guaranteed. Surging support for the cleric Hassan Rouhani over the past few days has been a salutary reminder of the volatility of these races. Under Iran's hybrid political system presidential candidates are vetted on the authority of the theocratic "supreme leader" but chosen by popular vote. The country's reformists are still battered and bruised – their two candidates in 2009 remain under house arrest – but supporters of the "Green" movement who believe they were robbed last time are still there and anxious to see better times. Appearances count for a lot. The Iranian establishment has worked hard to forestall the sort of mass protests that followed the disputed election four years ago – not least because since then the world has witnessed the Arab uprisings (Tehran has relished portraying them as an "Islamic awakening") as well as the unrest in neighbouring Turkey. Restrictions on the internet and domestic and foreign media are part of this preventive strategy. Turnout, always seen as important to underline the democratic legitimacy of the Islamic Republic in the face of its enemies at home and abroad, will matter too – though very large numbers are likely to favour the more moderate candidates. Whoever becomes president, however, will face a familiar set of pressing domestic and international issues. The biggest one is the economy, battered by tightening sanctions imposed by the US to apply pressure over stalled nuclear negotiations. Iran's economy faces severe and long-standing structural problems that have been aggravated by the sanctions – even if it remains a taboo to link the two explicitly. Exchanges between the leading candidates on this point have been coded but unmistakable. It is clear, however, that the big issue is that of Iran's isolation in the wider world – the point on which the clownish and provocative Ahmadinejad aroused most anger. It was striking that Ali Akbar Salehi, the foreign minister, declared as he cast his vote that he hoped for improved relations with the US – a handy reminder that, revolutionary ideology aside, many Iranians still admire America. Making precisely the opposite point, the Supreme Leader himself – who at 74 seems unlikely to temper his hostility to the country which engineered the overthrow of Mossadegh and backed the shah – lashed out at Washington. "To hell with you if you do not believe in our election!" said Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. It was a blunt response to comments by US officials that they do not have "high expectations" that the election will change "the fundamental calculus of Iran". That certainly seems true of Saeed Jalili, the hardliner and current nuclear negotiator who is seen as Khamenei's personal choice. But would a different winner, Rouhani or Mohammed Bagher Qalibaf, the technocratic mayor of Tehran, display more flexibility to win support among young Iranians (a third of the 50-million-strong electorate are under the age of 30) though that could risk the opposition of the powerful Revolutionary Guards, the loyal keepers of Khomeini's flame? Maybe. But on the international issues it still seems unlikely. "Whoever wins will be very limited in their ability to influence foreign and nuclear policy," warns Ali Ansari of St Andrews University. Expectations in the west, then, are sensibly low. But if there is to be change for the better in Iran after this election it could perhaps come in a new and better-functioning relationship between Khamenei and the president after the ructions of the Ahmadinejad years – his departure at least bringing audible sighs of relief from his many enemies.
####2013 June 14####Iran presidential election: second round forecast after late flurry at polls####Iran's presidential race appears poised for a runoff vote next week after millions of people queued until late across the country night to elect a successor to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Election officials at Iran's interior ministry were yet to announce final results but a high turnout after a last-minute excitement caused by the reformists' endorsement of a moderate candidate boosted the chances of a second round next Friday. Hassan Rouhani, the moderate cleric backed by reformists and many opposition figures, and Tehran's pragmatic mayor, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, looked likely to emerge on top, with the chief nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili, thought to be the favourite candidate of the clerical establishment, falling behind. Around 4am Tehran time, the semi-official Mehr news agency cited unconfirmed reports saying Rouhani and Ghalibaf were leading in the initial counts. At the same time, Rouhani's campaign also announced he had entered the interior ministry for a visit and talks with officials. From the moment the polls opened state-run TV broadcast rolling coverage with a string of interviews with people sympathetic to the system. Voting was initially due to end at 6pm local time but was extended for at least five hours. Speaking after casting his vote in Tehran, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, urged citizens to come out en masse to refute suggestions by American officials that the election in the Islamic Republic enjoyed little legitimacy. "I recently heard that someone at the US national security council said 'we do not accept this election in Iran'," he said. "We don't give a damn." State-run media worked hard to convey the same message. "I am here to vote because of my leader [Khamenei]," one Iranian told Channel 1 of the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting. "I'm happy to have a say in my country's fate," said another. A first-time voter said: "I've been in the queue for one hour to vote but that's no pain, I can wait for hours." A middle-aged man said: "Our beloved soldiers gave their life for this revolution and became martyrs [in the eight-year Iran-Iraq war] so waiting for hours in the queue is nothing in comparison to that. It's my duty." Local news agencies reported that all six presidential hopefuls had voted and pledged to respect the results. Jalili said: "Any candidate that people choose, and is confirmed by the count of the ballots, should be respected by everyone." Ghalibaf, praised by many for being a successful mayor of the Iranian capital, promised "fundamental changes" and a focus on development and justice. "People's choice will be respected by me, too," he added. Another conservative, Ali Akbar Velayati, Khamenei's top foreign policy adviser, said after voting: "I request the entire Iranian nation to come to the ballot boxes enthusiastically and elect their favourite candidate since people's participation is a reaffirmation of their support for the Islamic Republic ruling system." Among those voting was Ebrahim Yazdi, secretary-general of the Freedom Movement of Iran, a banned group that is critical of the system. "Today's election is about choosing between bad and worse," he told the semi-official Mehr news agency. "Voting is a national duty and a right given to you by God." At least three children of the former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who was disqualified from standing, were also reported to have voted. Rafsanjani has publicly backed Rouhani earlier in the week and voted for him on Friday. Ahmadinejad, who served for two tempestuous terms marked recently by deteriorating relations with the supreme leader, voted in late afternoon – breaking with the convention that senior officials vote early as a sign of loyalty to Khamenei. Iran's interior minister, Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar, said the hours of voting were being extended because of a high turnout, state-run Press TV reported. It said turnout in Tehran Province was predicted to reach 70% — though analysts look sceptically at official figures. Official statistics show that more than 50 million Iranians were eligible to vote, among them 1.6 million for the first time. In 2009, when Ahmadinejad won his second term, the opposition Green movement claimed victory and said the result had been rigged. Its leader, Mir Hossein Mousavi, remains under house arrest. Analysts believe rigging is less likely this year because Ahmadinejad is not running and the current government does not support any of the candidates. "Four years ago the violent crackdown on peaceful protests that followed the presidential election exposed the authoritarian nature of those who hold power in Tehran," said Faraz Sanei of Human Rights Watch. "Today, regardless of who becomes the country's next president, one thing is clear: the legacy of unfair elections, highlighted by the arbitrary disqualification of opposition figures, detention of government critics, and heavy media censorship continues to deprive Iranians of the right to shape their country's future." Few western reporters were allowed into Iran for the poll. One Tehran-based correspondent described thousands of people queuing to vote but not on the scale of 2009. Irregularities were reported. Rouhani's campaign complained that the name of a former candidate who had withdrawn earlier in the week was still on ballot papers.Iran's interior ministry said later that it had dealt with the issue. Access to Farda, a news website close to Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, was also blocked. In a strange paradox, the state is so keen during elections to showcase a country ostensibly united despite it differences that normal stringent rules do not apply. Thus a picture published by a conservative news agency showed a young woman with virtually no head-covering, her headscarf loosely tied at the back of her head. Iranian women voting abroad reported that they were able to vote without wearing the hijab despite normally strict rules imposed by embassies. The BBC, meanwhile, complained that Iran had launched a new campaign of intimidation against staff working for its Persian service in London. Relatives of 15 journalists have been harassed, summoned for questioning and threatened.
####2013 June 15####Hassan Rouhani: key negotiator####Hassan Rouhani chose the image of a key to symbolise his campaign. The cleric, who has risen from being a centrist figure to the country's president-elect, was supported by Iran's battered reformist movement. On Saturday night, the door to the presidency awaited as he appeared set to succeed Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. "Ahmadi bye-bye," chanted groups of jubilant campaigners who cautiously welcomed his win in central Tehran. Many desperately hope that Rouhani, 65, will steer Iran through its severe economic hardship and away from the threat of war. The moderate, who is the head of Iran's centre for strategic research, was also the country's chief nuclear negotiator, serving as the secretary of the supreme national security council for 16 years. Under president Mohammad Khatami, he was responsible for negotiating with the west over the controversial nuclear programme. On his watch, Iran agreed for the first time to stop enriching uranium and allowed more scrutiny of the programme, avoiding the risk of being referred to the UN security council and economic sanctions. During the three-week election campaign, Rouhani positioned himself as a moderate willing to improve Iran's relations with the west and work to lift sanctions by finding a solution to the nuclear deadlock. He also indicated that he would work to secure the release of opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi from house arrest.
####2013 June 15####White House says Tehran must 'heed will of people' on Rouhani victory####The White House on Saturday called on Tehran to "heed the will of the Iranian people", after the moderate cleric Hassan Rouhani was elected as the country's new president. In a statement, the Obama administration congratulated Iran's voters on having the "courage in making their voices heard" in the face of censorship and intimidation. It added that Washington remained open to engagement to reach a diplomatic solution to concerns over Tehran's nuclear programme. The White House's comments came shortly after it was announced that Rouhani – a moderate figure who has expressed a desire to re-establish relations with the west – had won the popular vote. A western-educated cleric and former nuclear negotiator, he secured more than 50% of the vote, it was announced by Iran's interior minister, Mostafa Mohammad Najjar – enough to avoid a run-off election. The election of a moderate could go some way towards a thawing of relations between Iran and the west. In the White House's initial response, it seemingly held out an olive branch in terms of a negotiated settlement over the issue of sanctions and Iran's nuclear ambitions. In April, the last round of talks between the two sides broke down, with seemingly little progress made. The US secretary of state, John Kerry, hinted that negotiations could be heading towards a deadline, noting that the talks were not an "interminable process". The election of Rouhani will raise hopes that a solution can be found. The White House statement said: "The United States remains ready to engage the Iranian government directly in order to reach a diplomatic solution that will fully address the international community's concerns about Iran's nuclear programme."
####2013 June 15####Iran election: moderate Rouhani leads####The moderate Iranian cleric Hassan Rouhani has taken a strong lead in the initial results of Iran's presidential election, threatening to win a simple majority and avoid a second-round runoff. With more than 8 million votes counted from the 50 million electorate, Rouhani had 51.2% of votes cast, Reuters reported. Rouhani's nearest rival was the conservative Tehran mayor, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, a long way behind with 16.7%. Hardline nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili was third with about 13%. Seven hours after polling ended, Iran's interior minister, Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar, appeared on state-run television to begin announcing the results. The authorities had initially announced they would begin to reveal counts just after 2am local time on Saturday (10.30pm Friday BST), but the first figures did not come through until at least four hours later. This was in marked contrast to the previous vote in 2009, which many believed was rigged, when final results were announced in matter of few hours. "It has taken them seven hours to count 800,000 votes while four years ago they counted almost 30 million votes in few hours," one Iranian living in Tehran said via online chat on Facebook. "It might be a good sign that actually this time they're really counting." Unlike in 2009, Iranian agencies refrained for many hours from speculating on the results or publishing unofficial counts. On Friday millions of people across the country queued to elect a successor to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The endorsement of Rouhani earlier in the week by reformist leaders increased the chances of a second round next Friday and injected last-minute excitement into the race. Rouhani, 65, is the only cleric among the eight candidates, but is seen as a pro-reform moderate figure. He is a former chief Iranian nuclear negotiator who served as the secretary of Iran's supreme national security council for 16 years. Under the former president Mohammad Khatami's presidency, Rouhani was responsible for negotiating with the west over Tehran's nuclear dossier. On Rouhani's watch, Iran halted its enrichment of uranium and showed more co-operation with the inspectors of the International Atomic Energy Organisation. He is keen to transform Iran's damaged relations with the west and favours political openness. Voting was initially due to end at 6pm local time on Friday but was extended for at least five hours. Speaking after casting his vote in Tehran, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, urged citizens to come out en masse to refute suggestions by American officials that the election in the Islamic Republic enjoyed little legitimacy. "I recently heard that someone at the US national security council said 'we do not accept this election in Iran'," he said. "We don't give a damn." Among those voting was Ebrahim Yazdi, secretary-general of the Freedom Movement of Iran, a banned group that is critical of the system. "Today's election is about choosing between bad and worse," he told the semi-official Mehr news agency. "Voting is a national duty and a right given to you by God." At least three children of the former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who was disqualified from standing, were also reported to have voted. Rafsanjani publicly backed Rouhani earlier in the week and voted for him on Friday. Ahmadinejad, who served for two tempestuous terms marked recently by deteriorating relations with the supreme leader, voted in late afternoon – breaking with the convention that senior officials vote early as a sign of loyalty to Khamenei. Official statistics show that more than 50 million Iranians were eligible to vote, among them 1.6 million for the first time. In 2009, when Ahmadinejad won his second term, the opposition Green movement claimed victory and said the result had been rigged. Its leader, Mir Hossein Mousavi, remains under house arrest. Analysts believe rigging is less likely this year because Ahmadinejad is not running and the government has not endorsed any of the candidates.
####2013 June 15####Iran: Hassan Rouhani wins presidential election####Link to video: Iran: Rouhani's supporters celebrate presidential victory Iran was on the brink of an extraordinary political transformation on Saturday night after the moderate cleric Hassan Rouhani sensationally secured enough votes to succeed Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Rouhani's victory delighted reformers who have been desperate for a return to the forefront of politics after eight acrimonious years under Ahmadinejad. It will also lift the spirit of a nation suffering from its worst financial crisis for at least two decades as a result of the sanctions imposed by western powers in the dispute over its nuclear programme. Rouhani, who favours a policy of political openness, as well as re-establishing relations with the west, is likely to soothe international tension. He has been described by western officials as an "experienced diplomat and politician" and "fair to deal with". Iran's interior minister, Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar, announced on state television on Saturday night that 72% of 50 million eligible Iranians had voted, and Rohani had won just over the 50% of the vote required to avoid a runoff. Rouhani, a PhD graduate from Glasgow Caledonian University and a former nuclear negotiator, has pledged to find a way out of the current stalemate over Iran's nuclear programme, which is the cause of the sanctions crushing the economy. Minutes after he was announced as the winner, thousands of jubilant campaigners and people across Iran poured into streets to celebrate. "Ahmadi Bye Bye", chanted a large group in central Tehran, according to witnesses, in a reference to Ahmadinejad. Car horns were honking in larger streets in Tehran and Rouhani supporters chanted. The Iranian currency, the rial, recovered in value against the dollar by at least 6% on Saturday. Later on Saturday night, Rouhani issued a statement on television, saying "a new season of solidarity" had begun following a result that brought "rationality and moderation" as well as "peace, stability and hope". The country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, along with Ahmadinejad, congratulated Rouhani. Tehran's mayor, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, also conceded defeat by sending a congratulatory message to the president-elect. Other candidates did the same. During Rouhani's term as a nuclear negotiator, Iran appeared more co-operative to the international community and, leading up to Friday's poll, he repeatedly pointed out that on his watch Iran's nuclear dossier was not referred to the UN security council. Britain on Saturday night urged Iran's new president to set his country on a "different course" after years of deadlock and dispute with the west. The Foreign Office said that it hoped Rouhani would use his victory to engage with international concerns over Iran's nuclear ambitions and develop a "constructive" relationship with the wider international community. "We call on him to use the opportunity to set Iran on a different course for the future: addressing international concerns about Iran's nuclear programme, taking forward a constructive relationship with the international community, and improving the political and human rights situation for the people of Iran." White House spokesman Jay Carney said: "It is our hope that the Iranian government will heed the will of the Iranian people and make responsible choices that create a better future for all Iranians." Analysts believe rigging was less likely this year because Ahmadinejad was not running and the government had not endorsed any of the candidates. The endorsement of Rouhani earlier in the week by reformist leaders Mohammad Khatami and Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani injected last-minute excitement into the race, boosting his chances. The 65-year-old was the only cleric among the six presidential candidates. Meir Javedanfar, an Iranian politics lecturer at the Inter-disciplinary Centre in Israel, described the results as a "total and absolute surprise. Based on the 2009 results, which many including myself believe were falsified, the expectation was that Rouhani's genuine votes would not be counted, as his views do not seem to be in line with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps and the supreme leader, just like [opposition leaders] Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karoubi's views were not," he said. The former British foreign secretary Jack Straw knows Rouhani and described him as "warm and engaging". "This is a remarkable and welcome result so far and I'm keeping my fingers crossed that there will be no jiggery-pokery with the final result," he said. "What this huge vote of confidence in Rouhani appears to show is a hunger by the Iranian people to break away from the arid and self-defeating approach of the past and for more constructive relations with the west." He added: "On a personal level I found him warm and engaging. He is a strong Iranian patriot and he was tough but fair to deal with and always on top of his brief." Speaking to the Observer, Seyed Hossein Mousavian, Rouhani's deputy on Iran's national security council from 1997 to 2005, and a spokesman for Iran's nuclear negotiating team, said the results showed Iranians were desperate for change. "The public support of Mr Rafsanjani and Mr Khatami and withdrawal of Mohammad-Reza Aref from the race had a major role in Rouhani's win," he said. Khatami and Rafsanjani played a significant role in Rouhani's victory by holding off declarations of support and persuading Aref to drop out to avoid a split vote. "Hardliners remain in control of key aspects of Iran's political system, but centrists and reformists have proven that even when the cards are stacked against them they can still prevail due to their support among the population," Trita Parsi of the National Iranian American Council said. The turnout for Friday's vote was so high that polling stations stayed open for five hours longer than planned. Speaking after casting his vote in Tehran, Khamenei had urged a mass turnout to rebut suggestions by American officials that the election enjoyed little legitimacy. "I recently heard that someone at the US national security council said, 'We do not accept this election in Iran'," he said. "We don't give a damn." Among those voting was Ebrahim Yazdi, secretary general of the Freedom Movement of Iran, a banned group that is critical of the system. "Today's election is about choosing between bad and worse," he told the semi-official Mehr news agency. "Voting is a national duty and a right given to you by God."
####2013 June 15####Iranian cleric Hassan Rouhani elected as president####The moderate cleric Hassan Rouhani has won the Iranian election and will succeed Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as president, Iran's interior minister announced on national television on Saturday. Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar said Rouhani had secured just over the 50% of the vote needed to avoid a runoff, after a turnout of 72%. Rouhani's win is a welcome surprise for many reformists, who are desperate to break back into mainstream Iranian politics after eight years of Ahmadinejad's hardline presidency. Although the only cleric among the eight candidates allowed to stand for election, the 65-year-old is seen as a pro-reform moderate figure. He has positioned himself as a moderate figure favouring political openness and improved relations with the west. He has pledged to find a way out of the stalemate over Iran's nuclear programme that led the west to impose tough sanctions. "It is good to have centrifuges running, provided people's lives and livelihoods are also running," Rouhani said during a TV debate. Rouhani served as the chief nuclear negotiator under the former president Mohammad Khatami. Under his watch, Iran agreed to halt uranium enrichment and was more co-operative with the inspectors of the International Atomic Energy Organisation. As early results were announced, some analysts interpreted the likely defeat of Saeed Jalili, Iran's current hardline chief nuclear negotiator, as a vote of no confidence in the current regime's nuclear policy. During the campaign, Rouhani repeatedly noted that on his watch Iran's nuclear dossier was not referred to the UN security council and no major sanctions were imposed. Seyed Hossein Mousavian, Rouhani's deputy in Iran's national security council between 1997 to 2005, and a spokesperson for Iran's nuclear negotiating team, said the early results showed that people in Iran were desperate for a change in the country's foreign and economic policies. Earlier on Saturday, Britain's former foreign secretary Jack Straw described Rouhani as an experienced diplomat, "warm and engaging" and "a strong Iranian patriot". "This is a remarkable and welcome result so far and I'm keeping my fingers crossed that there will be no jiggery-pokery with the final result," he said. "What this huge vote of confidence in Dr Rouhani appears to show is a hunger by the Iranian people to break away from the arid and self-defeating approach of the past and for more constructive relations with the west. "On a personal level I found him warm and engaging. He is a strong Iranian patriot and he was tough, but fair to deal with and always on top of his brief." Trita Parsi, of the National Iranian American Council, said: "Though hardliners remain in control of key aspects of Iran's political system, the centrists and reformists have proven that even when the cards are stacked against them, they can still prevail due to their support among the population." Meir Javedanfar, an Iranian politics lecturer at Interdisciplinary Centre in Herzliya, Israel, described the early results as a "total and absolute surprise". "If Rouhani wins in the first round, it'd be a clear sign that after the 2009 uprising, the supreme leader has learned that his regime needs to regain its legitimacy, and that will only come from counting the vote of the people." In 2009, when Ahmadinejad won his second term, the opposition Green movement claimed victory and said the result had been rigged. Its leader, Mir Hossein Mousavi, remains under house arrest. Analysts believe that rigging is less likely this year because Ahmadinejad is not running and the government has not endorsed any of the candidates. Iran's rial recovered its value against the dollar by more 6% as results were announced in Rouhani's favour.
####2013 June 16####Hassan Rouhani's election as Iranian president met by cautious optimism####Hassan Rouhani's victory in Iran's presidential election has boosted cautious hopes for a change in the country's troubled relations with the west – amid warnings that any new policies would have to be authorised by the hardline supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The US congratulated Rouhani – using his clerical title, "Sayyid" – and pledged to "engage Iran directly" to find a "diplomatic solution that will fully address the international community's concerns about Iran's nuclear programme". Britain called on him to "set Iran on a different course for the future". Arab states sent formal greetings but commentators emphasised the sharp divisions over Tehran's support for Bashar al-Assad in Syria – which mirrors Saudi Arabia's backing for the rebels seeking to overthrow him. Syria's opposition coalition called on Rouhani "to recognise the will of the Syrian people as they persevere in the face of foreign aggression and tyrannical rule". Iran is also the patron of Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shia movement that in recent weeks has been fighting openly alongside the Syrian army. The involvement of Iranian security personnel in Syria has been far more discreet. Israel, whose nuclear monopoly in the Middle East is threatened by what Tehran insists is a peaceful nuclear programme, was dismissive. "The international community must not give in to wishful thinking or temptation and loosen the pressure on Iran for it to stop its nuclear programme," warned Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu. Rouhani gave little away in his first public comments, saying: "The nations who tout democracy and open dialogue should speak to the Iranian people with respect and recognise the rights of the Islamic republic." Expectations for significant international repercussions from Iran's election result are generally modest. Under Iran's hybrid system ultimate power still rests with Khamenei. Elected presidents do not have the freedom of action to change course on major security, defence and other foreign policy issues. Still, Rouhani has views of his own and seems likely respond to positive signals – from the US in particular. It was during his talks with EU governments from 2003 to 2005 that Iran suspended elements of its nuclear programme. It was only when Mahmoud Ahmadinejad became president that Iran aggressively accelerated uranium enrichment. During the election campaign he linked the state of the economy to the nuclear standoff and attacked Khamenei's candidate (and Iran's current nuclear negotiator) Saeed Jalili, for incompetence on the issue, saying that his dogmatic approach and "slogan of resistance" had not achieved much. Rouhani also suggested in an interview that the Americans had first broached talks and Khamenei vetoed them – contrary to the standard narrative in Tehran which portrays Iran as always reasonable. "We could be in for a rethink period on foreign policy," suggested one veteran Iranian analyst. "But it could be a long process of gradual change rather than a overhaul. Rouhani's 16 years in the national security council puts him in a very strong position in understanding and handling the policy-formation process and the people and the agencies involved." For some observers, Rouhani's candidacy suggested a parallel with the decision in 1988 to appoint Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani as commander of the army with a view to extricating the country quickly from its bloody eight-year war with Iraq. Rafsanjani was elected president the following year. In this optimistic view, Rouhani is the right man to lead a new initiative to allow Iran to disengage from its lonely and economically debilitating battle over the nuclear issue. "As the author of Iran's previous dabbling in nuclear concessions, he can be the fall guy, yet again, for a deal that the [supreme] leader wishes to disavow," said Suzanne Maloney of the Saban Centre for Middle East Policy. The key question is how much room for manoeuvre he will be permitted to have by Khamenei, the powerful Revolutionary Guards and intelligence establishment. His cabinet, observers say, will be important to calm fears in the conservative camp that he is not planning a coup against them. "The [supreme] leader, it would appear, has accepted that things are not right and that a change was needed," argued Ali Ansari of St Andrews University. "What we do not know is how far he has accepted that the crisis in the country is real. I remain anxious that all these raised expectations will founder on the obstruction of a leader who has not fully heard the message or understood what people want."If Khamenei thinks that Rouhani can just introduce cosmetic changes to sweeten the west and get sanctions lifted, then I fear that he [Khamenei] will be sadly disappointed. But so will all those Iranians who want to see real change. Rouhani has to deliver substantive changes otherwise it's not going to work."
####2013 June 16####Iranians vote for change, however gradual####For a moment it looked as if she was going to tear her headscarf off. The large, colourfully dressed woman in the crowds thronging Tehran's Kaj Square did not speak much English, but she had no problems making herself understood. "We're so happy, we're so happy," she shouted, amid the cacophony of honking horns and joyous celebrations that greeted Saturday evening's unexpected announcement that Hassan Rouhani had won Iran's presidential election in the first round of voting, without requiring a runoff. Tens of thousands of people took to the streets across the country, thrilled at the possibility of change. For me, the only British journalist allowed into Iran to cover the election, it was hard not to get caught up in the excitement of the evening. But then, in the shadows at the north end of Kaj Square, a nondescript shopping centre in one of Tehran's middle-class districts, I noticed about 20 policemen watching the surge of people. Perhaps it was fortunate that the woman kept her head covered. Even before Rouhani's victory was confirmed, many voters had been uncharacteristically hopeful. "Peace, peace, and not in enmity with anyone – that's what I want," a young woman told me in the long queue of voters outside the Hoseiniyeh Ershad mosque in Nnorth Tehran on Friday. And it seems that this optimism has been rewarded. In Rouhani, Iran has secured a president who will, at the very least, be less verbally aggressive and abusive than Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the outgoing leader. He will also seek to change Iran's relations with the world. Rouhani's senior aide, Mohammad Akrami, told me that the new president wanted to "improve women's rights and ease the dress code". He has also pledged to end the current stalemate over Iran's nuclear programme. Yet many here say that, whatever the election result, the real power will remain entrenched in Iran's vast and complex security system. The sunglassed Basij militiamen on their motorbikes will still enforce the clerics' will, alongside the powerful Revolutionary Guard. Change, if it comes as a result of last Friday's vote, will be gradual indeed. "I don't believe a word of it," said a well-dressed woman in north Tehran when asked about her vote. "I didn't vote. They are all conservatives, they are all the same," she added. Rouhani appears to be something of a post-Islamic revolution phenomenon. He has three political roots. One is planted close to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. A second stems from his own track record as head of Iran's national security council and one-time nuclear negotiator. The third is newly germinated in elements of the reform movement that was so violently put down after the last presidential vote four years ago. No sooner had votes been counted on Saturday than those close to the supreme leader started to deny that Rouhani had ever been anywhere near a reformist thought. So why did more than 18 million Iranians vote for him? "The economy," a taxi driver said. "Sanctions," said a woman in a black hijab and chador (the full-length cloak worn by Iranian women). "We can't carry on with inflation like this, I won't be able to live." It is clear that Iran's theocratic leaders were badly bruised by both the Green movement uprising after the 2009 presidential election – when hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets to protest against the official results, which they believed had been rigged – and the violence required to contain it. On Saturday the supreme leader even talked about it: "The people suffered from the lawlessness of 2009. Then there was passion and excitement, but along with insults. We have progressed a lot in four years," he said. But not far enough for the wife of the leading reformist Mostafa Tajzadeh, who protested, wearing green, outside a polling station in north Tehran. "My husband was a minister under [reformist] President Khatami. He's been in prison for four years," she said. "He refused to defend himself; he regarded his trial as unfair." No one knows how many political prisoners there are but researchers talk of many hundreds. Mentioning them is not popular with the authorities here. Indeed, many within the security apparatus do not like foreign journalists being here at all. They resent the ministry of culture and Islamic guidance for giving visas to me and my team. Last Tuesday, while working on a story about the effect of western sanctions on healthcare, we were arrested outside a pharmacy in which the price of bowel cancer drugs had risen tenfold in six months. The eight young plainclothed zealots from the Revolutionary Guard refused to identify themselves but they made it clear who they were. Eventually we were released, but only after gaining a sharp insight into the colliding interests of the factions that make up Iran's Islamic revolution. And yet beyond the bugs in hotel rooms, the arrests, and strange people taking photographs wherever you go, there is something continuously absorbing and intriguing about Iran that renders the paranoia it provokes entirely bearable. The country is spectacular, the people are approachable, friendly and remain westward-looking. Many are highly educated and skilled, and 6,000 years after the country began, they are still building. In short, they are people the west used to and should still do business with. For all its faults, Iran remains a haven of peace, surrounded by wars in which the west is deeply involved, and set to become more so after Barack Obama announced his intention last week to arm the Syrian rebels. By midnight on Saturday the Chamran highway that leads to the centre of Tehran was sporting a noisy three-car-wide, five-mile queue of families desperate to join the celebrations. Perhaps Rouhani has just earned Iran a break. On the ground there seems to be a very slim chance that things will change, but the regional timing is far worse than challenging. Perhaps Obama would consider extending the open hand of friendship he mentioned in his Cairo speech four years ago to Rouhani.
####2013 June 17####Iranian president-elect Hassan Rouhani pledges path of moderation####Iran's newly elected president has pledged to follow a "path of moderation" and promised greater openness over the country's nuclear programme. Hassan Rouhani used his first news conference since Friday's election to sketch out views that are likely to be welcomed in the west as possible opportunities to ease tensions. But he said he would not support halting Iran's uranium enrichment, which is a key stumbling block for talks between Iran and world powers. He also sidestepped the issue of Iran's close alliance with President Bashar al-Assad, saying efforts to end the civil war and restore stability rested with the Syrian people. Iran's president does not have authority to set major policies such as the direction of the nuclear programme or relations with the west. All such decisions rest with the ruling clerics and the powerful Revolutionary Guard, which have so far appeared to embrace Rouhani. He can, however, use his margin of victory and his influential connections, including the former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani to try to sway policies. He will serve as Iran's main international envoy and is almost certain to present a different tone than his combative predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who formally gives up power in August. Rouhani described his election as opening a new era and said he would "follow the path of moderation and justice, not extremism". "We have to enhance mutual trust between Iran and other countries," he said. "We have to build trust." He also said dealing with the economy was among his priorities, in a clear reference to how western sanctions over Iran's nuclear efforts have helped raise inflation to more than 30% and slashed revenue. Previously Rouhani – a former nuclear negotiator – has criticised Iranian positions that have led to increased sanctions, but he also described the pressures by the US and others as oppressive. "The Iranian nation has done nothing to deserve sanctions. The works it has done has been within international frameworks . If sanctions have any benefits, it will only benefit Israel. It has no benefits for others," he said. He promised to encourage step-by-step measures to reassure the west over Iran's nuclear ambitions. The west claims that Iran is seeking a nuclear weapon. Iranian leaders, including Rouhani, say Iran seeks reactors only for energy and medical applications. "The first step will be showing greater transparency. We are ready to show greater transparency and make clear that the Islamic Republic of Iran's actions are totally within international frameworks," he said. "The second step is promoting mutual confidence. We'll take measures in both fields. The first step is that no new sanctions are imposed. Then, the [existing] sanctions are reduced." On Syria, he said: "We are opposed to foreign intervention. We hope peace and tranquility will return to Syria through the co-operation with countries of the region and world."
####2013 June 17####Iranian president-elect Rouhani promises better relations with west####Iran's president-elect, Hassan Rouhani, whose sensational victory in Friday's election prompted nationwide celebrations, has promised to reduce tensions with the west, show more transparency on its nuclear front and bring moderation back to the forefront of Iranian politics. In his first press conference in Tehran, two days after being confirmed as the elected successor to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Rouhani presented himself as a moderate politician willing to "enhance mutual trust" between Tehran and the international community, including Britain and the US, and as the saviour of the Iranian economy by working to lift sanctions. "We have to enhance mutual trust between Iran and other countries," said Rouhani, nicknamed in the Iranian media as the diplomat sheikh and the sheikh of hope. "We have to build trust," he said. Rouhani made clear that his government will pursue a "friendly relationship" with all its neighbours, including the Arab countries, in particular Saudi Arabia. The press conference, held in Iran's centre for strategic studies, an institution Rouhani has presided over for 22 years, was at times chaotic, as only a limited number of Iranian and foreign reporters in the packed room were given the chance to ask questions. The session, which lasted an hour and half, was broadcast live on national television. In a sharp contrast to the outgoing president, Rouhani avoided issuing inflammatory statements against the west and instead promised improved relations. He outlined his priorities by saying: "Your government … will follow up national goals … in the path of saving the country's economy, revive ethics and constructive interaction with the world through moderation." In regards to Iran's nuclear programme – which the west suspects to have military dimensions, while Tehran insists it is entirely for peaceful purposes – Rouhani said his government would restore "mutual confidence" by promoting step-by-step measures in order to reassure the international community about Iranian ambitions. "The first step will be showing greater transparency," he said. "We are ready to show greater transparency and make clear that the Islamic Republic of Iran's actions are totally within international frameworks." He described western sanctions targeting Iran's economy and its banking system as "cruel" and said his government's goal would be that no new sanctions are imposed and the existing measures are lifted. "The Iranian nation has done nothing to deserve sanctions. The works it has done has been within international frameworks. If sanctions have any benefits, it will only benefit Israel. It has no benefits for others," he said. Iran's national currency was sent into a tailspin last year as the toughest-ever sanctions imposed on Tehran since the 1979 Islamic republic started to have an impact. A serious shortage of medicine followed as banking restrictions impacted pharmaceutical companies in Iran and hundreds of thousands of Iranians with serious illness were put at risk. Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said in an interview on Monday that he did not think Rouhani could soothe nuclear tensions because Tehran's nuclear policies rested in the hands of Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. "The Iranian election clearly reflects deep disaffection of the Iranian people with its regime, but unfortunately it doesn't have the power to change Iran's nuclear ambitions," Netanyahu said. Despite the hostility among Iranian hardliners towards British media, a BBC journalist was allowed to ask a question about Tehran-London ties, which were downgraded in 2011 following the storming of the British embassy by angry protesters. "We will try to improve relations with all countries we recognise based on mutual respect and the UK is not an exception," Rouhani said, signalling that diplomatic relations could be normalised. UK foreign secretary William Hague said: "The government hopes that following Dr Rouhani's election, the Iranian government will take up the opportunity of a new relationship with the international community by making every effort to reach a negotiated settlement on the nuclear issue." When asked by a US journalist if his mandate would included engaging in direct talks with the US, Rouhani said it was a difficult question but signalled it was possible, provided that the US government recognised the rights of Iranian people. "The issue of relations between Iran and America is a complicated and difficult issue," Rohani said. "It is an old wound that needs to be healed." Speaking on Syria, where the west sees Iran as complicit with Syria's Bashar al-Assad regime, Rouhani said his government would be opposed to foreign intervention. "It's up to the Syrian people to decide for their future," he said. "We are opposed to terrorism, civil war and foreign intervention and we hope peace and tranquillity will return to Syria through the cooperation with countries of the region and world." Rouhani's victory was met with cautious optimism in the west, with the White House congratulating Iranians on their choice. Following his win, Tehran's stock exchange index has gone up and the national currency, the rial, recovered its value against the dollar. Web users also said internet speed has improved, with the restoration of access to VPNs used to bypass filtering and less jamming of satellite signals by the state. Although the Iranian questions were focused mainly on the economy, the president was also pressed on the issues of political openness and press freedom. In an apparent reference to the house arrest of opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, a journalist asked if he would work to lift restrictions on "leading political figures who have held key positions after the revolution". Rouhani responded saying it was not only his decision. At the end of the conference, one person shouted: "Rouhani remember, Mir Hossein should also be here." One commentator noted it was the first time Mousavi's name had been heard on national television for a long time and another wondered if he was watching the press conference in his house surrounded by security officials.
####2013 June 17####Mahmoud Ahmadinejad summoned to criminal court####Iran's outgoing president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, has been summoned to a criminal court in Tehran to answer unspecified charges following the victory of the moderate cleric Hassan Rouhani in Friday's presidential election. Local news agencies on Monday published a copy of the summons issued by judicial authorities demanding that Ahmadinejad appear before the court in November, a few months after he has handed over the Iranian presidency to Rouhani. It revealed little except that a lawsuit had been lodged by the parliamentary speaker, Ali Larijani. The news, initially announced by the government website dolat.ir, was the latest in a series of bruising setbacks for Ahmadinejad, who has fallen foul of his erstwhile patrons and lost a great deal of influence in Iranian politics. "Appear in court following the complaint lodged against you by the head of parliament's Article 90 committee as well as Ali Larijani, the head of the parliament and Mr Yaghoub Khalilnejad," read the summons published by the semi-official Fars news agency. The government's website said the charges were not specified. Rouhani himself has nothing to do with the lawsuit but the timing showed Ahmadinejad's parliamentary rivals had waited until the election was over before making their complaint public. Ahmadinejad is scheduled to hand over Iran's presidency to Rouhani in early August, when the president-elect will be sworn in. In February, Ahmadinejad and Larijani engaged in a public spat at the highest levels of the Islamic republic when the president played a secretly filmed tape in a public session that implied the speaker's brother was financially corrupt. In a dramatic sequence of events that marked the climax of the power struggle between Ahmadinejad and his conservative rivals in parliament, Ahmadinejad's tape showed Larijani's brother, Fazel, allegedly trading on his sibling's influence for financial gain in a conversation with Saeed Mortazavi, the caretaker of Iran's social welfare organisation. "These are audio and video, and the tape is clear," said Ahmadinejad at the time. "If the honourable parliament speaker sees fit, we can turn over the 24 to 25 hours of recordings to you." A few minutes of a barely audible tape were played as millions of Iranians listened to the extraordinary parliamentary session live on national radio. "It was a good thing that you showed this to let people learn about your character," Ali Larijani retorted at the time. Larijani's brother, Fazel, denied the accusations and threatened to sue him but the incident was enough to tarnish the speaker's image. When Ali Larijani delivered a speech in the holy city of Qom shortly after the incident, he was met with angry crowds who threw shoes at him and shouted slogans. Last month, Ahmadinejad accompanied his close confidant and former chief of staff, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, to the interior ministry as the latter registered his name as a candidate in the election. However, Iran's constitutional body, the Guardian Council, disqualified him without giving a reason. Conservatives close to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, have accused Mashaei of undermining clerical power by advocating nationalism and putting Iran ahead of Islam. Ahmadinejad, however, has stood by him
####2013 June 18####Iranians express cautious optimism after Hassan Rouhani's victory####"The intersection of Enghelab Avenue and Vali Asr Street was absolutely mental. There were people everywhere; we were all chanting various slogans such as, 'Mousavi, Mousavi, we got our votes back finally.' It gave me goose-bumps all over. Four years ago, before the government fixed the elections, I'd been so hopeful that everything would change," says Masoud, a 26-year-old mechanic who lives in Garmsar, not far from the birthplace of outgoing Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. On Saturday afternoon, when it became clear that Hassan Rouhani stood a good chance of emerging victorious from the previous day's presidential ballot, Masoud says he travelled the 105km (65 miles) from Garmsar to celebrate with people in Tehran. Across the country, there were raucous celebrations in dozens of cities through the night. Masoud cites the release of Green Movement leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi from house arrest as his main demand of the incoming president. "I won't quiet down until they're free," he says. "I'll feel like it's all been a bust until I see them safely out." In the public celebrations that took place in Tehran, images of Mousavi were more prominent even than those of the newly elected Rouhani. "I feel lighter now," Masoud says of the election's impact. "Yesterday I started working at my old job again, but this time everything seems easier to deal with. I used to hate the place I was in, but I feel like I'm experiencing it all for the first time. For example, I just feel great about doing what I can to improve this company's business right here and now." Razita, a 26-year-old graduate student in Isfahan, also says the outcome of the vote has had a positive, cathartic effect on her. "Up to [Saturday], I just felt negatively toward most people," she says. "Like, all the relationships in my life boiled down to who was a supporter of whom. That is, if someone supported Ahmadinejad, I wanted nothing to do with him or her and nothing else was important. I was more or less forced to leave my grandparents' house, and I felt like I couldn't even speak to my aunt and I would give my dad hell about it all the time, but now I feel this overwhelming urge to forgive and forget, you know? The hate I felt has started to give way to something healthier, I think." Danial, a 20-year-old student of psychology at a university in the north-eastern city of Bojnord, says he has faith that at least some of the changes that people have been seeking are finally on the way. "I can actually see us getting a break from the whole 'security state' atmosphere and witnessing a shift away from the sort of empty populist discourse of the last government toward something with more of a stress on reason and morality," he says. "The economy and our foreign relations might even improve." Still, he tempers his hopes, reminding himself that change does not happen overnight. Danial refers with scorn to Ahmadinejad's behaviour in domestic and especially international politics as "lumpen". He says that one of his main demands of the new president is a major shift in rhetorical style. "That whole 'sanction us so much your arms fall off', and all the other ridiculous stuff he said, I mean, that was just embarrassing," Danial explains. "Maybe it was funny to some people, but overall it's terribly embarrassing. People must have been asking: 'If this is their president, what are the people who elected him like?' "What I'm concerned about most is economic stability," he continues. "The nuclear negotiations are tied directly to that, obviously. [Rouhani] should also act rationally and with an outlook desiring peace in regards to the negotiations and to foreign policy as a whole. The censorship of film, music, and literature must end as well. All parts of society must enjoy true freedom of expression." Ali Reza is president of the accounting division of a company that does business internationally from the industrial suburb of Mashhad. "As I see it, if Rouhani must learn one lesson from Ahmadinejad, it is to defiantly stand toe-to-toe with [supreme leader Ayatollah Ali] Khamenei," he says. "Or he could just do what [reformist ex-president Mohammad] Khatami did 10 years ago and keep discussing and negotiating until everyone is blue in the face. Khatami didn't have quite the backbone that Ahmadinejad has. He'll ultimately need to align himself with the [Green] movement; that will earn him the support of all who boycotted the elections in addition to the more than 18 million people who voted for him." In Ali Reza's view, one thing in particular will demonstrate whether Rouhani can deliver on his promises: his cabinet. "Who he picks for his cabinet will be very revealing," he says. "It will show whether he is truly with us or against us." Rouhani will have to submit his choices for ministerial positions for approval by the Majles (Islamic Consultative Assembly) in a few months' time. "Do I have hope? A very tiny glimmer of hope. I'm not trusting until I start seeing results," says a Tehran journalist after Rouhani's first press conference as president-elect on Monday. "He made promises, and a campaign promise is just that, a promise. It's meant to get people to vote, but unless he actually does something for the country people won't be trusting him. "We had eight years when the president made promises about jobs and housing and subsidy reform plans and never once did he deliver, so I think this time around people are being more cautious in believing what a president-elect says right away. They want results." Saman, a young professor at Tehran's Shahid Beheshti University, says he has little hope that Rouhani's administration will bring about meaningful change. "It's hard for me to expect such a thing from a cleric who doesn't identify as a reformist and belongs to the Combatant Clergy Association [a political party founded in 1977 by, among others, Khamenei; its current members include former president Ayatollah Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani]. I guess what I mean is I don't have high hopes. I wasn't terribly excited about his candidacy from the start and preferred [former Khatami vice-president Mohammad Reza] Aref, but in the end I had to vote for him as there was no one else." Three days before the election, Aref withdrew and both Khatami and Rafsanjani endorsed Rouhani. "Still, there is a silver lining. You can definitely feel what the Scorpions call the Winds of Change," Saman says with a wry smile. "Progress happens gradually. People need to take advantage of the atmosphere that has been created by realising their civic duties and becoming more active in cultural arenas as well. If the government is going to work from up top, we are going to work from the ground up. "People's day-to-day needs must be met first. According to [psychologist Abraham] Maslow's hierarchy of needs, human beings cannot endeavour for certain secondary needs until their primary, immediate needs are met." Twenty-five-year-old Shahla, who works as an English language instructor in Tehran, says she is happy that her young students won't have to come of age in what she refers to as "the disgraceful age of Ahmadinejad". "Finally the country will be run by experts and those who have its interests at heart and not a band of thugs," she says. "This alone makes me feel hopeful." On the other hand, says Shahla, the election did divide her and her boyfriend. "My boyfriend was a leftist. Well, he's still a leftist, but he's not my boyfriend anymore. As soon as talk of a Khatami candidacy began, it was like the small spark of discontent between us exploded into a giant blaze. We'd had a lot of disagreements before and [my boyfriend] can be quite radical at times. When I decided to vote, he told me he didn't want to be part of the 'flock of sheep' going to the polls, and even up to five in the afternoon on election day, when Rouhani had got over 12m votes, he was still mocking me. Eventually it seemed like just the thought of me being happy and excited got on his nerves." A short while after Shahla joined the celebration in the streets, she called her boyfriend, who was also participating in the festivities. "I asked him what made him want to join the flock," she says. "Then we got into a huge fight that led to us breaking up." She takes a deep breath and continues: "Anyway, the most beautiful thing about the whole ordeal was how people showed their political maturity and grace. Their patience. And just how much they had learned and grown together since the dark days of four years ago." Shahla says that the events of 2009 made voting somewhat "painful" for her, and that on some level, she felt guilty. "As my friend put it, it was like we were sentencing a man to death, forcing his wife to marry someone else, and participating in the wedding party all at the same time. But it was worth it." Kamran, a former book translator who now vaguely describes himself as a businessman, finds Rouhani's victory disquieting, rather than a cause for celebration. "I'm scared at the moment. I'm afraid this will cost us later, somehow," he says. "I mean, the Majles is completely in the hands of the fundamentalists, so any reforms will be shot down. Also, various radical groups within government aren't going to take this defeat lying down." Still, Kamran says he voted for Rouhani, and that the country's dire economic situation was the main reason. "The sanctions must be lifted first, which will require a final decision on the nuclear programme. The economy is the most important thing for me because I like reading. Last week, I bought four books and it cost me 180,000 tomans." That is equivalent to £39 at the prevailing street exchange rate – a hefty sum for prose in a country where the average working urbanite earns around £275 monthly. "They weren't even antique books or anything. I can only enjoy art and literature when my financial situation is relatively stable, you know?" Mahmoud, a former PhD candidate in philosophy, declares: "Rouhani has to fix everything. I don't mean just me – I mean the lawless ways in which students have been treated." He says that he has written a book but not yet submitted it to the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance as required. He is certain it will be either heavily censored or rejected outright. "I believe a kind of national reconciliation should take place," he continues. "Rouhani should meet and come to terms with Ahmadinejad and other leaders from various parts of the political spectrum. He should show rightwingers that they have nothing to fear from us." Yadollah, who works sweeping pavements and watering plants at a park in Tehran, has to pause and think for several long seconds when asked what he expects of Rouhani. "It's hard to say," he eventually responds. "I had to take out a loan for my daughter's wedding recently and I'm paying it off at 200,000 tomans a month right now. Along with the other stuff I have to pay off, my monthly payments are about 600,000 tomans altogether. It would be great to get some relief from the debt." He asks for a cigarette before continuing. "Life in general is expensive. I have to work several shifts here," he says, pausing to light up. "I heard that Rafsanjani and Khatami supported him. When those two were in office, things were actually pretty swell, and he's a mullah just like those two. Hopefully he knows what he's doing."
####2013 June 29####Iran's president-elect calls his election victory a mandate for change####Iran's president-elect, Hassan Rouhani, has said his election victory this month was a mandate for change and vowed to remain committed to his campaign promises of moderation and constructive engagement with the international community. Rouhani told a conference in Tehran on Saturday that he would keep his promise to follow a path of moderation in domestic and foreign policy. "Moderation in foreign policy is neither surrender nor conflict, neither passivity nor confrontation. Moderation is effective and constructive interaction with the world," he said. "People chose a new path … people said in this election: we want change. The best language of the people is the ballot box. The people's vote is very obvious. There is no ambiguity." Rouhani's pledges could reduce tension between Iran and the west and ease the standoff over Tehran's disputed nuclear programme. He has already promised greater openness on the nuclear issue while siding with the religious establishment that refuses to halt uranium enrichment. He believes it is possible to strike a deal that would allow Iran to keep enriching uranium while assuring the west it will not produce a nuclear weapon. The US and its allies fear Iran may ultimately be able to develop nuclear arms. Tehran has denied that it wants to develop weapons, saying its programme is peaceful and aimed at generating electricity and producing radioisotopes to treat cancer patients. Rouhani won by a landslide in the 14 June presidential election, defeating his conservative and hardline rivals. He will succeed the outgoing president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, in early August. The election was seen in part as a referendum on Iran's nuclear diplomacy. The country's top nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, a hardliner who supported a policy of resistance, finished third in the vote, which was widely seen as rejection of his tough stance on the nuclear issue.
####2013 March 13####Ahmadinejad's new pet phrase 'spring' infuriates Iranian establishment####When millions across the world used the phrase "Arab spring" to describe pro-democracy movements in the Middle East, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, made it clear he disapproved. Instead, he referred to those events as the Islamic awakening, with the intention of keeping a political uprising from crossing the borders into the Islamic republic. But to the ayatollah's dismay Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is increasingly using the word "spring" in what appears to be a campaign slogan for the man many believe he has chosen as his candidate in the forthcoming presidential race. The president's speech at the UN general assembly in September 2012 was the first time he is known to have used what has now become his pet phrase, causing internal disputes and anger among his conservative rivals. "Long live this spring, long live this spring and long live this spring," he said at the UN podium in what was perceived to be one of his mildest public addresses during his seven years in office. The president has since repeated similar lines several times. It has become common to hear Ahmadinejad publicly using the word. After a cabinet meeting on Wednesday, when a reporter asked if he had any news for people, he replied: "What is a better and prettier news than the fact that spring is coming. The time of sorrow is going away and, God willing, the next year will be a good and successful year for all Iranians." March 20, marking the spring equinox, is the start of the Persian new year – Nowruz – a 13-day ancient Zoroastrian festival celebrated as the most important holiday of the Iranian calendar. The presidential elections, scheduled for 14 June, are taking place in the final days of the season. Ahmadinejad's critics believe the president, who is prevented under Iranian law from running for a third term, is pursuing a Putin/Medvedev-style reshuffle by grooming his chief of staff, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, as his possible successor. Mashaei, a confidant of Ahmadinejad and his relative, is accused of advocating nationalism, greater cultural openness and attempting to undermine clerical rule, especially the supremacy of Khamenei. Opponents say that Mashaei is the head of a "deviant current" within the president's inner circle and he has little respect for the supreme leader, although he denies it. If Mashaei does put his name forward for the presidential vote, the powerful pro-Khamenei Guardian Council will have to vet his candidacy. Many believe he will not be allowed to run, while others say Ahmadinejad will threaten to go out with all guns firing if that happens. Last week, in a ceremony held before Nowruz, Ahmadinejad awarded Mashaei the country's highest cultural medal. Both men were recorded as using spring in their speeches. Keyhan, an ultra-conservative newspaper with a director appointed by Khamenei, has attacked the men for repeated references to spring, which it said could have un-Islamic connotations. Senior figures associated with the elite revolutionary guards have also voiced criticism of Ahmadinejad's catchphrase. Mohammad Esmail Kowsari, an MP, has warned that the president might be accused of engineering the elections. Another MP, Mohammad Hassan Asafari, said "long live the spring" was used by the "deviants". In response to the criticism, Ahmadinejad has said the use of spring merely referred to the revered Shia figure hidden Imam Mahdi. Meanwhile, local newspapers reported that Tehran's municipality has banned the word spring from being used in billboards across the Iranian capital. Some analysts say that Ahmadinejad is trying to attract the popular vote by creating his own version of an Iranian spring that is aimed at highlighting nationalism. By infuriating the establishment, some say, in fact Ahmadinejad is intending to draw attention from voters sympathetic to the Iranian opposition and reformers. Ahmadinejad has also been recently accused of a series of "inappropriate" and "un-Islamic" behaviours, such as saying that Hugo Chávez will be resurrected with Jesus and embracing the mother of the former Venezuelan president at his funeral, which, some believe, could have been an intentional move in order to showcase openness.
####2013 May 07####Ahmadinejad looks to make confidant his successor as Iran race starts####Iran started its six-week search for a new president on Tuesday as candidates began to register for an election that will mark the end of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's turbulent period in office. Dozens of hopefuls from various political groups have put their names forward for June's presidential poll. It is the first since the 2009 election, which resulted in months of unrest, bloodshed and the arrest of hundreds of protesters, journalists and political activists. Local media reported that 62 people took their identity cards and documents to the interior ministry on the first of the five-day registrations to announce their candidacies. Among them were a handful of serious contenders, including Hassan Rouhani, a former chief nuclear negotiator, Kamran Bagheri Lankarani, a former health minister, and Mostafa Kavakebian, a former MP. Other big players have yet to step forward for a battle between conservative "principlists", reformists, government associates and independents. Saeed Jalili, the country's current chief nuclear negotiator, is also a potential nominee. Shortly after filing his candidacy, the former nuclear negotiator Rouhani pledged "constructive interaction with the world" to try to address concerns about Tehran's atomic programme. The interior minister, Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar, who opened the candidate registration on Tuesday via video link, warned the nominees not to violate the rules by launching their campaign before being vetted. "The registration continues until 11 May and vetting the qualification of the candidates by the guardian council will start from 12 May," he was quoted as saying by the semi-official Fars news agency. When registration finishes, the guardian council's powerful group of clergymen and jurists will examine the nominees' competence and loyalty to the Islamic republic and pick up the final list of this year's candidates, which is expected on 23 May, in what looks like a very tight election calendar. A three-week campaign period will follow before the vote on 14 June. For a large number of Iran's opposition Green Movement, which was crushed after the 2009 events, this year's vote has little legitimacy as the opposition leaders, Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, are still under house arrest. Even so, reformists who were allied with the Green Movement do not appear to have any active plans for a boycott. In recent weeks, controls and blocks on internet traffic appeared to be boosted in possible attempts to limit opposition voices during the election period. Rouhani and Kavakebian are both reformist candidates, but it is still unclear whether more high-profile figures such as former president Mohammad Khatami or the moderate Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani will run. Rafsanjani has hinted this week that he would be willing to run if the supreme leader, Khamenei, approved his decision. "I will not enter the field without [Khamenei's] consent," he said, according to the semi-official Mehr news agency. Khamenei's supporters have criticised Rafsanjani, saying he sided with the Green Movement after the 2009 elections that gave Ahmadinejad a second term in office. Under Iranian law, Ahmadinejad cannot run for a third term but he is widely suspected to be grooming his close confidant and chief of staff, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, as a possible successor as part of a plan for a Putin/Medvedev-style reshuffle. In recent weeks, Mashaei, whose daughter is married to Ahmadinejad's son, has been accompanying Ahmadinejad in an extensive schedule of provincial visits that opponents claim is designed to promote the former for the June elections. Pro-Khamenei conservatives have labelled Mashaei the head of a "deviant current" in Ahmadinejad's inner circle, accusing him of undermining clerical power by advocating nationalism, putting Iran ahead of Islam, and favouring greater cultural openness. Ahmadinejad's unwavering support for Mashaei has cost the president a great deal of influence in Iranian politics. Ahmadinejad has been drawn into a bruising power struggle with the conservatives, many of them his former supporters, and has issued serious challenges to Khamenei, such as engaging in public spats with top-level officials. Khamenei is thought to be tolerating Ahmadinejad only to avert any risk of greater embarrassment, especially as the president appears to be going out with all guns firing. Conservatives widely predict that Mashaei will be rejected by the guardian council if he enters the race, while others say Ahmadinejad will fight to the end should that happen. Khamenei this week strongly warned officials against any plans to postpone the June elections.
####2013 May 11####Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani to stand in Iran presidential election####Leading contenders in Iran's forthcoming presidential election emerged on Saturday after registration for potential candidates ended with top figures from major rival camps entering what is likely to become a highly contentious race. Former Iranian president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and the incumbent Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's close ally, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, have both registered as candidates for next month's presidential election. Rafsanjani, who is expected to win the support of the country's reformers, and his hardline rival both announced their candidacy just before the deadline on Saturday. Since Tuesday when the official registration had began, there were anticipation on whether the two men, who are feared to issue challenges to the establishment by their candidacy, would eventually sign up. More than 680 candidates, including at least a two dozen women, have registered but Iran's Guardian Council, a powerful group of six clergymen and six jurists controlled by the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has the final say on who can stand. Only a handful of candidates are expected to be allowed to run in the 14 June vote. Saeed Jalili, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator and a close ally of Khamenei, also registered at the interior ministry in Tehran's Fatemi street on Saturday, which was a crucial port of call for those wishing to succeed Ahmadinejad. Rafsanjani, 79, is one of Iran's great political survivors who played an instrumental role in the appointment of Khamenei as the current supreme leader after the death in 1989 of the Islamic republic's founder, Ayatollah Rouhollah Khomeini. However, Rafsanjani and Khamenei have been at odds since the former lost to Ahmadinejad in 2005 presidential election. In 2009, Khamenei sided with Ahmadinejad who was alleged to have won in a rigged election while Rafsanjani showed moderate support for the opposition Green Movement and its leaders who disputed the results. As a result of his confrontation with Khamenei who has the final word in all state matters in Iran, Rafsanjani's authority has diminished in recent years and two of his children were jailed last year on separate charges but his candidacy can possibly play as a game changer. Despite this, many believe that he has a strong base among clerics and can draw a great deal of support from reformists because of his sympathy with the opposition. Although Rafsanjani and Mashaei are rivals with complete different political allegiances, they are both loathed by the supporters of Khamenei for allegedly attempting to undermine his power. Rafsanjani signalled last week that he would not run without Khamenei's consent. It was unclear on Saturday whether the supreme leader had in fact intervened in the final hours before registration drew to a close. Mashaei was accompanied by Ahmadinejad as he put his name forward for the 14 June vote, local news agencies reported. The president soon came under attack for showing his support for Mashaei while holding an official position but dismissed the criticism, saying he was on a day off from work on Saturday. "Mashaei means Ahmadinejad and Ahmadinejad means Mashaei," the president said in a joint press conference with his top aide soon after he registered. The pair displayed victory signs as they took their hands up. Under the Iranian election law, Ahmadinejad is limited to two consecutive terms but has been widely accused of grooming Mashaei to succeed him as part of a plan for a Putin/Medvedev-style power grab. Tehran's mayor, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, and Ahmadinejad's elder brother, Davoud, were also among the politicians who registered on Saturday. Ghalibaf, a conservative with strong ties to Khamenei, has formed a coalition with two other prominent figures with similar political leanings, Ali Akbar Velayati, a senior adviser to Khamenei, and Gholam Ali Haddad Adel, a former parliamentary speaker. All three men have registered but according to the coalition plan, only one is eventually supposed to run. Davoud Ahmadinejad, a former inspectorate-general at the presidential office, fell out with his brother over the president's choice in a cabinet appointment and his unwavering support for Mashaei. Since then, the elder brother has sided with the president's opponents and has embarrassed Ahmadinejad by speaking out against top presidential aides who are accused of being members of a so-called "deviant current" in Ahmadinejad's inner circle. Ahmadinejad's support for Mashaei, who is accused of being the leader of the "deviant current", has cost the president a great deal of influence in Iranian politics. Ahmadinejad has been drawn into a bruising power struggle with the conservatives, many of them his former supporters, and has mounted serious challenges to Khamenei, such as engaging in public spats with top-level officials. During the registration process politicians from various political groups have stepped forward, including Hassan Rouhani, a reformist, and Ali Akbar Javanfekr, a top presidential aide and Mohsen Rezaee, a former commander of the revolutionary guards. But with former presidential candidates from the previous vote in 2009, Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, still under house arrest four years after an election that resulted in months of unrest and bloodshed, the opposition Green Movement sees little legitimacy in this year's poll. The reformists have not called for an active boycott and Rafsanjani appears their favoured choice. The opposition website Kaleme reported on Saturday that security officials have surrounded the areas close to the office of the former reformist president Mohammad Khatami, preventing his supporters from visiting him. In the wake of his house arrest, Khatami refrained from running but has endorsed Rafsanjani. According to the 1979 Iranian constitution, the supreme leader is the head of the Iranian state and president heads the government. For 10 years after the revolution Iran had a prime minister as well as a president, but the position was abolished in 1989. Since then, all Iranian presidents have served two consecutive terms.
####2013 May 13####Iran's election contenders####While 686 candidates have registered to run in the Iranian elections on 14 June, they will be screened by the Guardian Council for their qualifications and loyalty to the Islamic Republic, with a shortlist of candidates to named on 22 May. Here are four to watch. Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani The 79-year-old moderate politician famous for his pragmatism is one of Iran's great political survivors, who was among the founding members of the Islamic republic and later its president, from 1989 to 1997. After the 1979 Islamic revolution, Rafsanjani became the country's first speaker of the parliament, a job he kept for nine years. During the Iran-Iraq war, he was the then supreme leader Ayatollah Rouhollah Khomeini's top representative in the supreme defence council, acting as the de facto commander-in-chief of the Iranian military. When Khomeini died in 1989, Rafsanjani played an instrumental role in the appointment of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei as the current supreme leader. The pair wereclosely allied during much of the 1980s and 1990s but they fell out after Rafsanjani lost to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in the 2005 presidential election. In 2009, when the opposition Green Movement disputed the official results that gave Ahmadinejad a second term in office, Khamenei sided with the hardline president while Rafsanjani showed sympathy for the opposition. That triggered a rift between the two men, although both have refrained from attacking the other directly in public. As a result of his confrontation with Khamenei, who has the final word in all state matters in Iran, Rafsanjani's authority has diminished in recent years and two of his children were jailed last year on separate charges. Pro-Khamenei supporters have targeted Rafsanjani with a barrage of attacks, saying he is no longer loyal to the supreme leader and is too old to be elected as president. Rafsanjani, who is likely to win the support of the country's reformers in the June vote, is currently the head of the country's expediency council, which mediates between the parliament and the powerful Guardian Council. Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei Mashaei, 53, is Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's closet ally and confidant. The pair have known and worked with each ogether for about 30 years. After the 1979 Islamic revolution, Mashaei worked for the revolutionary guards in its intelligence unit, later moving to the country's intelligence ministry in a low-profile position. Mashaei rose along with Ahmadinejad when the latter assumed key positions first as Tehran's mayor and then as president in 2005. In 2009 when Ahmadinejad took office for a second term after an election many believe was rigged, he appointed Mashaei as his vice-president. A week later Khamenei ordered him to resign. Supporters of Khamenei have accused Mashaei of attempting to undermine the supremacy of his leadership by advocating nationalism, putting Iran ahead of Islam and favouring greater cultural openness. More recently, Mashaei has been labelled as the leader of a "deviant movement" in Ahmadinejad's inner circle.Speculation is rife that his candidacy will be blocked by the Guardian Council, which vets all candidacies. Despite this, Ahmadinejad has stood firm by Mashaei. Saeed Jalili Jalili, 47, is the secretary of the supreme national security council and the head of Iran's nuclear negotiating team. In 2007, he succeeded Ali Larijani, the current parliamentary speaker, as Tehran's chief nuclear negotiator with the responsibility of dealing with the west over the Islamic republic's nuclear activities. Jalili, who has a PhD in political science from Tehran's Imam Sadeq University, was not previously a familiar face in Iranian politics until he took over the country's sensitive nuclear talks. With Iran's nuclear dossier in the spotlight, Jalili has become the public face of Iran's nuclear programme, meeting with high-level western diplomats in international venues trying to find a solution to the deadlock between Tehran and the west. Under Jalili's supervision, however, Iran's nuclear programme has come under unprecedented levels of scrutiny. The US and EU have imposed an embargo on the imports of Iranian oil in recent years for the country's refusal to halt the enrichment of uranium. Jalili is a close ally of Khamenei and is seen by many as his favourite candidate. Jalili also ran Khamenei's office from 2001 for a period of four years. Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf Ghalibaf, 52, is a former air force commander for the powerful revolutionary guards and an ex-head of the Iranian police force. He lost to Ahmadinejad in the 2005 presidential election but succeeded him as Tehran's mayor soon after Ahmadinejad took presidential office. He has since positioned himself as a moderate politician in practice but is strongly allied with the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Ghalibaf, a so-called conservative "principlist", has formed a coalition with two other prominent figures with similar political leanings, Ali Akbar Velayati, a senior adviser to Khamenei, and Gholam Ali Haddad Adel, a former parliamentary speaker. All three men have registered but according to the coalition's plan, only one is eventually supposed to run and Ghalibaf is believed to be the favourite. In a move reminiscent of the previous vote in 2009 when the opposition leader Mir-Hossein Mousavi created a massive momentum by going green, Ghalibaf's supporters wore yellow wristbands and carried yellow banners as they welcomed their favourite potential nominee during a recent gathering, leading to speculation that he has chosen yellow as his campaign's colour.
####2013 May 13####Iran prepares for high-stakes presidential election####Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, gazes down from a giant coloured backdrop that adorns the wall of the Tehran ministry that has been registering candidates for next month's presidential election. Slightly above and behind him are the unmistakably baleful features of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini – a reminder that the political system of the Islamic Republic he founded back in 1979 remains as complex and opaque as ever. Next month millions of Iranians will vote for a replacement for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the abrasive populist Khamenei anointed in 2005 and who won a second term four years later in a contest which that is widely believed to have been rigged. Mir-Hossein Mousavi, the Green movement leader who claimed victory in 2009, is still under house arrest, his supporters in disarray, in prison or in exile. Barring the unexpected – albeit a regular feature of Iran's idiosyncratic polls – no one openly in the opposition will be permitted to run on 14 June. But Saturday's last-minute registration of Hashemi Rafsanjani, a powerful former president and the pragmatic éminence grise of Iranian politics for decades, has dramatically overturned the assumption that this will be a contest only between dyed-in-the-wool conservatives. It is a complicated business – for Iranians as well as foreigners. "One constant of our elections is the big surprise," laughs Farah, a middle-aged professional. "Another is the way Iranians appear uninterested but will rush and vote at the last minute." Even experts are confused. "Many questions remain to be answered," admitted Sadegh Zibakalam, an astute Tehran University political scientist. The stakes are certainly high – for the Islamic Republic and perhaps the world. Iran's nuclear confrontation with the west, international sanctions, a disastrous economic crisis and hopes for domestic change could all be affected by the result. "The battle for the presidency is not just about the executive branch but the future direction of Iran as a whole," argues Mohammad Ali Shabani, editor of the Iranian Review of Foreign Affairs. Iranian newspapers announce the candidacy of Hashemi Rafsanjani, a powerful former president. Photograph: Atta Kenare/AFP/Getty Images Iran's state media is already praising the exemplary organisation of the polls and predicting a huge turnout – to be trumpeted as proof of a fully functioning democratic system. Yet beneath the officially orchestrated enthusiasm there is a sense of apathy – not least because of the bitter memories of how the protests that erupted after the announcement of Ahmadinejad's 2009 victory were ruthlessly crushed. "These elections will be rigged just like the last ones," predicts Morvarid, an insurance executive, who does not believe that any candidates who are out of ideological step with Khamenei will survive vetting by the jurists of the guardian council. Other sceptics say they will vote to avoid punishment but will spoil their ballots. The counter-argument is that this suddenly exciting election might make a real difference. "If we do not participate then they [the regime] will have the majority and will get on with their agenda," warns Mohammad, 25. But Parisa, his student girlfriend, counters furiously: "What happened in the last elections proved only one thing and that is that we're not important. Our friends were beaten, jailed, even raped – for what? Some left the country. Several died or are still unaccounted for. If we vote it means that we condone everything that happened to us and to our friends." Loyalists say it is their duty to help defend the Islamic revolution. "It's deja vu," says Ali Ansari of St Andrews University. "The last election is casting an enormous shadow over this one. It's affecting the way everyone is behaving. Sure, the regime needs a bit of theatre to generate interest, but they will stop well short of allowing anything like last time to happen. There is an overwhelming cynicism about the system. People are not going to be duped again." Iranians walk in the old bazaar in Tehran. Many say economic concerns are key to this election. Photograph: Vahid Salemi/AP Ahmadinejad's successor will be chosen from a field that includes the Khamenei hyper-loyalist Saeed Jalili, a high-profile nuclear negotiator. Hassan Rowhani, who also handled the nuclear issue, is more centrist. Mohammed Baqer Qalibaf, the Tehran mayor and a former senior revolutionary guard officer, combines a modernising agenda with a reputation for competent management. Ali Akbar Velayati, a one-time foreign minister, is another strong conservative candidate. Rafsanjani's last-minute decision – "the triumph of hope over experience", quipped one pundit – is intriguing. Now 78, he has a record going back to before the 1979 revolution, and is credited with having persuaded Khomeini to end the ruinous eight-year war with Iraq. Beaten by Ahmadinejad in 2005, he did not openly back the Greens in 2009 but he did urge the government to address people's grievances afterwards. Unlike Mohammed Khatami, the reformist president whose 1997-2005 tenure is now bathed in a retrospective golden glow, Rafsanjani has kept channels to Khamenei open. "Iran is always puzzling because it doesn't lend itself to simplification," muses Roberto Toscano, Italy's ambassador to Iran when Ahmadinejad first won. "This time the complexities and contradictions are really wild. The supreme leader wants a subservient and disciplined sidekick but he also needs a president to solve some very delicate problems. The supreme leader had a very bad surprise with Ahmadinejad. He thought he would be his altar boy but it turned out that Ahmadinejad wanted to be the priest." Khamenei – whose theocratic authority is backed by the revolutionary guards, intelligence services, the judiciary and religious endowments – retains control of national security issues including Syria and nuclear policy. He has already warned Iranians not to vote for candidates who advocate a conciliatory approach towards the US. Still, a president with credibility can serve his purposes too. "This election is necessary to boost the self-confidence of the regime in nuclear talks, in dealings with the outside world and to prove to Iranians that the regime is solid and in control," says a veteran analyst. "With a big turnout the regime can say: 'We got out 40 million voters in elections that were held peacefully and with massive support: you have to deal with us; we are here to stay.'" Saeed Jalili, right, a Khamenei hyper-loyalist, registers his candidacy. Photograph: Behrouz Mehri/AFP/Getty Images Repression, intimidation and censorship of opposition journalists mean that there is less talk about issues and more about personalities. But the sorry state of the economy is clearly the main worry. The consensus among experts is that it is in the worst shape it has been since the end of the war with Iraq in 1988. "It doesn't matter to me who becomes the president, but by God's grace, I hope it's someone who can resolve the nation's economic problems," said Hamid Reza, a middle-aged government employee. "I am sick of the stress and worrying about daily price rises and inflation." But Morvarid, the insurance executive, insists that it is political change that really matters. "I'm struggling with the economic situation, but I'm not going to buy their rubbish about how much they're going to fix everything," she says. "If someone can come and improve the political situation – even without necessarily improving the economy – that person gets my vote over an undemocratic candidate who happens to know the economy." Only reformists dare to say openly that bread-and-butter problems are linked inextricably to foreign policy. "Iranians feel that if there can be better relations with the west things will improve economically at home," argues Mohamed Karoubi, whose father Mehdi ran alongside Mousavi last time – and who also remains under house arrest. "The people are under heavy pressure. They are suffering from a shortage of medicines. Everyone has problems because of the sanctions." With a month to go before polling day there is plenty of scope for further drama. Observers say one crucial question is whether Ahmadinejad's controversial former aide – Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, who is loathed by Khamenei and his supporters – will be allowed to run. If he is disqualified, some believe that the outgoing president, who remains in office, may turn openly on Khamenei – perhaps by spilling the beans on what really happened in 2009 or by refusing to rig the results again. It is also tantalisingly unclear whether Rafsanjani will be a serious candidate or intends rather to play the role of kingmaker. "I wonder," ponders Ansari, "if this is a technocratic/reformist last-ditch attempt to seize back the Islamic Republic through the ballot box." In any event it would be wrong to dismiss this election as meaningless, as do radical opponents of the regime. Significant changes took place, after all, under both Rafsanjani and Khatami. "Iran is not a democracy but it is not a totally centralised Soviet-style system either," says a respected Iranian observer who is now in exile. "There is a degree of political debate about the distribution of resources, transparency and administration. This limited debate gives the system sufficient flexibility to correct some of its mistakes. It also sucks all the energy away from the idea of overthrowing the regime." Individual choices count, with many still influenced by, and fiercely loyal to, Khomeini's vision. "Look, the main thing at stake is the protection of the regime from foreign influence," said Mohammad, an engineer with the paramilitary Basij. "When I vote, my main priority is to help contribute to a strong base of support for the revolution and the supreme leader, and then I vote for whoever I believe is the most fitting candidate."
####2013 May 13####Iranian presidential elections 2013: the essential guide####1. Why is this Iranian election so important? 2. Why is Mahmoud Ahmadinejad not standing for reelection 3. Who can stand in the election? 4. How does voting work? 5. Who are the candidates and where do they stand? 6. What happened to the Green movement? 7. What will happen to Ahmadinejad after the election? 8. With the supreme leader in power, why does a new president matter? 9. What about the nuclear programme? 10. Are sanctions having an effect? 11. What to say at a dinner party? 12. In greater depth Why is this election so important? The vote on 14 June will be the first presidential election since 2009, when protests against the official results caused an uprising by the pro-democracy Green movement. This was followed by months of unrest and a harsh crackdown on demonstrators, journalists and political activists. Similar protests are not expected this time, but the election is taking place in a crucial period for Iran as concern over its nuclear programme escalates, sparking western sanctions and threats of a military strike by Israel, alongside ongoing instability in the Middle East. • Back to the top Why is Mahmoud Ahmadinejad not standing for reelection? Under Iranian law, the president is limited to two consecutive terms. The vote in June will mark an end to Ahmadinejad's eight years in office. After the Islamic revolution in 1979, when the then supreme leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, came to power, Iran had both president and prime minister for about 10 years. According to the 1979 constitution, the supreme leader is considered as the head of state and the president is the head of government. Abulhassan Banisadr, Iran's first post-revolution president, was elected in January 1980 but later impeached by the parliament and exiled for allegedly attempting to undermine clerical power. After Banisadr, Mohammad-Ali Rajai was elected president but he and his prime minister were assassinated soon afterwards. In October 1981, the current supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was elected as the president, serving two terms. Iran abolished the position of prime minister in 1989. After Khomeini's death in 1989, Khamenei was appointed by the council of experts as the supreme leader. Since he took power Iran has had three presidents all serving two consecutive terms: the moderate Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the reformist Mohammad Khatami and the hardline Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. • Back to the top Who can stand in the election? Almost any adult of Iranian origin and with Iranian nationality can take his or her identity card, a few passport-sized photos and the necessary documents to the interior ministry in Tehran's Fatemi Street to register as a candidate. But not everyone is allowed to actually take part. The Guardian Council, a powerful group of six clergymen and six jurists, vets each candidacy. Apart from the usual requirements, such as having a good personal record, political competence and loyalty to the fundamental principles of the Islamic republic and its religion are the main issues considered by the council during this process. In 2009, for example, out of 476 registered nominees only four candidates were allowed to stand in the election and many former officials were disqualified. This year, the official registration started on 7 May and finished on 11 May. The Guardian Council is expected to announce the final list of candidates by 23 May, which is expected to be short. • Back to the top How does voting work? There will be a three-week campaign period after the candidates are announced on 23 May, before the election on 14 June. The voting age in Iran is 18. If a simple majority is not achieved in the first round, the two candidates with the most votes will compete in a runoff. Elections are held and results announced under the supervision of an administrative council in the interior ministry. • Back to the top Who are the candidates and where do they stand? Iran presidential candidates’ debate - live coverage Photograph: Paddy Allen for the Guardian We have put together an interactive graphic on the eight candidates to be Iran's next president. Click here to see where they fit on the political spectrum. Here are mini-profiles of the eight candidates: Hassan Rouhani: Rouhani, 65, is the only cleric among the eight candidates, but is seen as a pro-reform moderate figure expected to win the support of the country's reformers. He is a former chief Iranian nuclear negotiator who served as the secretary of Iran's supreme national security council for 16 years. Under the former president Mohammad Khatami's presidency, Rouhani was responsible for negotiating with the west over Tehran's nuclear dossier. Under Rouhani, Iran halted its enrichment of uranium and showed more cooperation with the inspectors of the International Atomic Energy Organisation. He is keen to transform Iran's damaged relations with the west. Rouhani is seen as a close ally of Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the relative reformer who was disqualified from standing in the June vote. Rouhani has signalled he will work to secure the release from house arrest of opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi. Mohsen Rezaee: Rezaee, 59, was chief commander of Iran's powerful revolutionary guards for 16 years. He is currently the secretary of Iran's expediency council, which mediates between the parliament and the Guardian Council. Rezaee has run for president before, including in 2009, when he lost to Ahmadinejad. He is sympathetic to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, but is running as an independent candidate in the June presidential vote. Despite his conservatism, he has shown relatively more tolerance towards the freedom of expression. In recent years, Rezaee has been associated with a number of news websites that are conservative but have shown more objectivity, relatively speaking. Saeed Jalili: Jalili, 48, is the secretary of the supreme national security council and the head of Iran's nuclear negotiating team. With Iran's nuclear dossier in the spotlight, Jalili has become the public face of Iran's nuclear programme, meeting with high-level western diplomats in international venues trying to find a solution to the deadlock between Tehran and the west. Under Jalili's supervision, Iran's nuclear programme has come under unprecedented levels of scrutiny. Jalili is a close ally of Khamenei and is seen by many as the supreme leader's favourite candidate. Jalili also ran Khamenei's office from 2001 for a period of four years. Jalili, who has a PhD in political science from Tehran's Imam Sadeq University, was not a familiar face in Iranian politics until he took over the country's sensitive nuclear talks. Jalili's thesis for his doctorate degree was titled "the foreign policy of Prophet [Mohammad]". He is believed to the most anti-western candidate among the eight standing in June election. Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf: Ghalibaf, 52, is a former air force commander for the powerful revolutionary guards and an ex-head of the Iranian police force. He lost to Ahmadinejad in the 2005 presidential election but succeeded him as Tehran's mayor soon after Ahmadinejad took over the presidency. Ghalibaf has since positioned himself as a moderate politician in practice, but he is strongly allied with supreme leader Khamenei. Ghalibaf is a so-called conservative "principlist". In his speeches in recent weeks, Ghalibaf has tried to win the support of both reformists and hardline conservatives, attempting to present himself as a politician who can work with both. Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel: Haddad-Adel, 68, is a former speaker of the Majlis, the Iranian parliament, and currently an MP for Tehran. He is a close ally of supreme leader Khamenei, and is his daughter married Khamenei's son, Mojtaba Khamenei. Haddad-Adel is a conservative "principlist" who formed a coalition with Tehran's mayor Ghalibaf and Khamenei's top adviser, Ali Akbar Velayati. According to the coalition's plan only one was supposed to stand at the end but none of the three have withdrawn from the race. Haddad-Adel has always reflected views of Khamenei and is seen as an anti-western figure, having written a famous book criticising western culture entitled Culture of Nudity and Nudity of Culture. Mohammad-Reza Aref: Aref, 62, was vice-president of Iran under the reformist president Mohammad Khatami for four years. A former chancellor of Tehran University, Aref is seen as a moderate reformist who has not voiced strong opposition to the state's crackdown against the opposition in recent years and has therefore been tolerated as a presidential candidate by the establishment. Many reformist figures don't consider Aref a true reformist while others say that either he or Rouhani should bow out of the race to give one reformist candidate a better chance. Aref has positioned himself as a pro-reform candidate willing to transform the image of Iran in the world and improve relations with the west. During a recent TV debate, Aref criticised the state-run television for its live debate format – resulting in a surge in his popularity. Ali Akbar Velayati: Velayati, 68, was foreign minister of Iran for more than 16 years and is currently a top advisor to supreme leader Khamenei. A paediatrician who also studied in Johns Hopkins University, he is seen a conservative figure who sympathises with the views expressed by Khamenei and his allies in the revolutionary guards. Velayati said recently that he would seek to solve the Syrian crisis with help from the west should he takes office. Despite this, he reflects Khamenei's views on Syria and refers to "the Arab spring" as an Islamic awakening similar to Iran's revolutionary events in 1979. Mohammad Gharazi: Gharazi, 72, is a former oil minister running as an independent candidate seeking to improve Iran's financial crisis by bringing inflation under control. Until recently, Gharazi was an unfamiliar face for many of Iran's young generation; he has not held any key political position for many years. His candidacy was not expected to be accepted by the Guardian Council as many saw him as not competent enough to run, but he was allowed to stand to the surprise of many. He is a supporter of supreme leader Khamenei but is expressing relatively moderate views in politics. • Back to the top What happened to the Green movement? Supporters of Mir-Hossein Mousavi attend a campaign rally ahead of Iran's dispute 2009 presidential election. Photograph: Ben Curtis/AP The movement was largely silenced in the state crackdown of 2009. Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, the leaders of the Green movement who participated in that election, are still under house arrest. In the eyes of many opposition activists, this year's vote will have little legitimacy, given the house arrests, and restrictions on human rights and political campaigning. Even so, reformists who allied with the Green movement have not announced any active plans for a boycott and reformist nominees have also registered. Rafsanjani is considered to be the reformists' favourite candidate. In the absence of its leaders, the Green movement has so far failed to unite and announce any strategy for this year's vote. Mir-Hossein Mousavi. Photograph: Majid/Getty Images Four years on, hundreds of activists are still in jail, some serving lengthy sentences. Dozens of journalists are also behind bars in Iran which is among the most media-restrictive countries in the world, according to the New-York based Committee to Protect Journalists. We have put together an interactive guide on some of the activists, students, journalists, women's rights campaigners, lawyers, artists, former politicians and members of Iran's religious and ethnic minorities who have been jailed or convicted in recent years. Click here to see our Iran's prisoners of conscience interactive guide. • Back to the top What will Ahmadinejad do after the election? Depending on who wins the election, Ahmadinejad's future may vary. If the new president is an ally, which many analysts believe is unlikely, he will retain some backroom power and may fight to preserve his dwindling influence in a suspected Putin/Medvedev-style power grab. If a conservative contender close to Khamenei wins, it is likely that Ahmadinejad will be sidelined. Khamenei was Ahmadinejad's patron until two years ago when a high-level rift emerged between them over Mashaei. Pro-Khamenei conservatives say Ahmadinejad's chief of staff and close ally is seeking to undermine the supremacy of the leader by advocating nationalism and putting Iran ahead of Islam. Ahmadinejad's unwavering support for Mashaei, who is accused of running a "deviant current", has cost him a great deal of influence over Iranian politics and has put him at adds with Khamenei. • Back to the top With the supreme leader in power, why does a new president matter? Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, left, and Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani in less fractious times. Photograph: Reuters It is true that Khamenei has the ultimate power and the final word in all state matters in Iran but, as previous experiences have shown, a new president can significantly change the trajectory of the country. As the presidency of the reformist Khatami showed, Iran can be quite different under different presidents despite the same supreme leader. Under Ahmadinejad, a mercurial figure who often issues inflammatory statements, the country has become increasingly isolated internationally, with its image significantly damaged. Under Khatami, however, Iran showed more commitment to its international obligations and had better relations with the west. During his time, Iran agreed to halt its uranium enrichment activities and give UN inspectors full access to its nuclear sites. For many Iranians, elections are pointless because all candidates are vetted by the Guardian Council, which is closely allied with the supreme leader. A number of Facebook pages have been set up this year calling on serious Iranian politicians to run for the presidency. Among these pages are some satirical campaigns, including one calling on Khamenei himself to run for presidency, claiming no one is closer to him than himself, and that it would be better to have him both as supreme leader and president. • Back to the top What about the nuclear programme? Under Ahmadinejad, Iran's nuclear activities have faced unprecedented international scrutiny. The US and the EU have imposed a series of financial punitive measures against Tehran in the past two years, the toughest since the 1979 Islamic revolution, over suspicions that the programme has military ambitions. Iran says it is merely for peaceful purposes, but has not fully complied with its international obligations and has continued to enrich uranium despite six UN security council resolutions calling a halt. Iran's nuclear policy is mainly decided by Khamenei and his powerful Revolutionary Guards but a new president, as Khatami's presidency showed, can have significant influence in easing tensions with the west. An alleged uranium-enrichment facility near Qom, Iran. Photograph: Digital Globe/Reuters • Back to the top Are sanctions having an effect? The US and EU embargoes on Iranian oil have cost Tehran billions of dollars. Also, Iranian financial institutions are cut off from the world's banking system and those continuing to deal with Iranian banks are threatened with punishment. The recent hardship is believed to be the country's worst financial crisis since the Iran-Iraq war as the Iranian currency, the rial, was sent into a tailspin last year and prices of staple goods soared rapidly. Sanctions have also had unintentional consequences such as serious shortage of life-saving medicines in the country with hundreds of thousands of Iranians at risk. • Back to the top What to say at a dinner party "It's very much a battle between the principlists and the deviants but whatever happens, Khamenei will still be pulling the strings." But remember not to say: Won't the ayatollah win? • Back to the top In greater depth • Iran starts its six-week search for a new president as candidates began to register • Ahmadinejad's new pet phrase 'spring' infuriates Iranian establishment • Iranian elections: economy still centre stage as candidates rehash old themes • Call for Iran to end house arrest of opposition leaders • Iran's currency hits all-time low as western sanctions take their toll • Iranian journalists arrested in raids on newspapers • How life-saving drugs are caught up in Iranian sanctions • Ahmadinejad's enemies scent blood in Iran power struggle. • Back to the top
####2013 May 14####Iran's presidential elections thrown into doubt by last-minute entries####The entry of Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei has heated up and complicated Iran's presidential contest. The month or so until polling on 14 June suddenly seems like a long time, with many potential twists and turns as politicians, clerics and voters play their part. Suitably for such drama, both Rafsanjani and Mashaei left it late. "They showed up at the ministry of interior [on Saturday] some 30 minutes before the close of candidate submissions, and it's certainly created something of an uproar around the town," said one analyst in Tehran. Amid a field dominated by "principle-ists" – those professing a fierce loyalty to Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei – Rafsanjani and Mashaei offer charisma as well as sharply contrasting views on the way Iran should be governed. This could encourage voter turnout, which would be a great boost for Khamenei, the rahbar (supreme leader), and help restore some of the legitimacy lost when the disputed 2009 presidential election provoked widespread street protests. But such rivalries also carry the risk of spilling over into vicious faction fights or even further unrest. Rafsanjani, 78, is a cleric and self-styled man of the system who has held many senior positions in the Islamic republic, including commander in the 1980-88 war against Iraq and president between 1989 and 1997. He has advocated pragmatism both in international policy and in running the economy, in which he believes the private sector should play a greater role. Mashaei, 52, is a close ally and relative by marriage of the outgoing president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a self-styled man of the people. Mashaei has backed the president's egalitarian rhetoric and populist economic policy including subsidised bank loans and cash handouts. He shares Ahmadinejad's regard for folk religion, even at the expense of respect for the jurisprudence of the Islamic clergy, and has even sometimes appeared to laud Iranian nationalism as much as Islam. Rafsanjani's registration was the more surprising of the two, especially as he recently said he would stand only with the approval of Khamenei. What kind of blessing, if any, Rafsanjani has received remains unclear, but his decision looks like a recent one, given it is just three weeks since two of his children attended the news conference where Hassan Rowhani, the former top security official and an ally of Rafsanjani, announced his candidacy. It has already been suggested in the principle-ist camp, including by the influential Kayhan newspaper, that the guardian council, which vets candidates before announcing an approved list by 23 May, should block both Rafsanjani and Mashaei. Many principle-ists previously accused Rafsanjani of encouraging the unrest after the 2009 election, whereas Mashaei has frequently been attacked as the head of a "deviant current" and even accused of sorcery. Mashaei's registration – and to a lesser extent that of Rafsanjani – emphasises the political nature of the council's role. A spokesman for the council has already said it will refer Ahmadinejad to the judiciary for arriving arm-in-arm at the interior ministry alongside Mashaei for registration. The spokesman suggested this broke the electoral code, which requires that the president avoids electioneering. Further, the prospect of the council turning down either Mashaei or Rafsanjani concentrates attention on Khamenei, who in 2005 created a precedent by instructing the council to reverse a decision not to qualify two reformist candidates. "This is a very difficult race to read until the council of guardians decides," said the analyst, "and it is not impossible that there will be some disagreement about who should or should not run, before Khamenei steps in with 'higher understanding'." While many in Tehran have long assumed Mashaei would never clear the guardian council, the president and his close ally have long behaved as if he would be a candidate. This in turn has led to speculation that Ahmadinejad and Mashaei have certain cards to play: these are assumed to be the release of evidence of corruption in high places and the will to provoke a crisis, even street unrest, if the council turns him down. But just the prospect of Mashaei and Rafsanjani on the ballot paper has been enough to stir up the election. Rafsanjani will try to offer a measured, almost technocratic presidency seeking domestic economic reform and reduced international tension over the nuclear programme. How well this plays with voters will depend on Rafsanjani conducting a far less complacent campaign than his last bid, when he was trounced by Ahmadinejad in the run-off presidential ballot in 2005. While he can expect support from business and older clerics, Rafsanjani is also pitching for support from reform-minded voters. Reformist groups and parties have dithered for months over the election and many will refuse to back a pragmatic conservative like Rafsanjani, but Mohammad Khatami, the reformist president from 1997-2005, has already issued a public statement supporting him. If he passes the council, Mashaei will seek to take forward Ahmadinejad's almost messianic commitment to share oil wealth with ordinary Iranians, particularly through subsidised bank loans and direct cash payments. This is scorned by better-off Iranians but it may still appeal to many poorer people, even though Mashaei is a close ally of a president who is leaving office with unemployment at 32%, inflation at 13% and oil exports halved by stringent western sanctions over the nuclear programme. The possible inclusion of Mashaei, Rafsanjani or even both on the ballot paper should concentrate minds in the principle-ist camp. The more astute already sense the danger of being squashed between the two, but so far at least the principle-ists have behaved – in the words of Farideh Farhi of the University of Hawaii – like a "herd of cats". The format of the Iranian presidential election – where the two best-placed candidates proceed to a second round – should encourage like-minded candidates not to run against each other. But the lack of any effective party structure makes this difficult and it remains to be seen whether egos can be overcome and trade-offs arranged to form a more united front. Some principle-ist candidates have made tentative agreements to drop out in favour of an ally. This may be easiest for the "2+1" principle-ist coalition of Ali Akbar Velayati, senior adviser to Khamenei; the mayor of Tehran, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf; and the former parliamentary speaker Gholam-Reza Haddad-Adel. But other principle-ists in the field include Saeed Jalili, the top security official and nuclear negotiator; the former foreign minister Manouchehr Mottaki; and Kamran Bagheri Lankarani, Ahmadinejad's former health minister and the candidate of Jebhey-e Paydari (Resistance Front). But any manoeuvring over who should stand down in favour of whom will suck effort from engaging voters. The principle-ist candidates have been projecting themselves as competent managers but most – the main exception being Ghalibaf – are short of public profile and short of time in which to create it.
####2013 May 16####Iran election: Rafsanjani defends decision to stand as his 'national duty'####Hashemi Rafsanjani, the dark horse heavyweight candidate in Iran's presidential election, has hit back at hardline pro-regime figures who are alarmed by his growing popularity to insist that he has a "religious and national duty" to run – and defiantly accused his detractors of harming the Islamic revolution. Politicians close to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the country's "supreme leader", are urging that the veteran cleric be disqualified after he submitted his candidacy in an electrifying move last weekend – just minutes before registration closed. It had been assumed that Iran's election would be a closed contest between loyal and officially-approved conservatives. But although much could change before polling day on 14 June, there is now growing support for Rafsanjani's candidacy from followers of Mir Hossein Mousavi, the Green movement leader who claims his 2009 election victory was "stolen" by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. "You should see who is supporting Rafsanjani and who wants him to be a candidate for the election," warned Gholam Haddad Adel, a pro-Khamenei figure. "The reformists of 2009 are gathering behind Rafsanjani and the truth is that the people who supported Mir Hossein Mousavi in 2009 are now supporting Rafsanjani." Green activists are setting up Facebook pages to mobilise support for Rafsanjani's campaign. Mousavi and fellow reformist Mehdi Karroubi remain under house arrest and are banned from political activity. Mohammed, Karroubi's son, said Rafsanjani would now win the support of those who voted for change in 2009 but instead got Ahmadinejad for a second term. "The majority of the Green movement feel they now have a voice in this election," he told the Guardian. Speaking on Thursday to Tehran University students, Rafsanjani struck a confident note. "I entered the race to perform my religious and national duty given the country's situation … and its problems at home and abroad," the Mehr news website reported. "Certain people and movements have resorted to lying and falsification and slurs to discredit others. These people, intentionally or unintentionally, are harming the Islamic revolution." Rafsanjani, now 79, is a household name in Iran. He was a confidant of Ayatollah Khomeini and a co-architect of the Islamic Republic who has served as speaker of parliament and president. Known as "the shark" – a reference to his cunning as well as his unusually sparse beard – Rafsanjani effectively ran the bloody eight-year war against Iraq, launched by Saddam Hussein in 1980 when he believed that the post-revolutionary chaos would prevent Iran from mounting a robust defence. Rafsanjani was famously involved in the 1986 Iran-Contra saga, when weapons were secretly supplied to Tehran by Reagan administration officials in return for the release of US hostages held by a militant Shia group in Lebanon. In 1988 he was credited with having persuaded a reluctant Khomeini to sue for peace with Iraq. It is also believed that he played an important role in the choice of Khamenei as Khomeini's successor. But the two fell out after Rafsanjani lost to Ahmadinejad in the 2005 election. Over the years he has acquired a reputation for being canny and pragmatic – as well as very rich from his pistachio-farming family inheritance and later business dealings. In 2003, Forbes estimated Rafsanjani's own wealth at over $1bn, an astronomical sum in Iran. His reputation has suffered from widespread allegations of corruption, which he denies. The US and other western governments will be watching for any evidence that he might take a softer line on the contentious issue of Iran's nuclear programme – the cause of the harsh sanctions that are exacerbating the country's structural economic problems. Until last weekend Rafsanjani had said he would only stand with the permission of Khamenei and he reportedly went ahead after receiving a call from the supreme leader's office. That, and his position as head of the expediency council, which mediates between parliament and the Guardian Council, means that the latter body –charged with vetting the candidates – is unlikely to disqualify him. In a country where rumour and labyrinthine conspiracy theories are the stuff of political discourse, some believe he may have been set up as a counterweight to Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, Ahamadinejad's controversial former chief of staff – who is loathed and feared by Khamenei and the conservatives. " This is a classic divide and rule operation," argued Ali Ansari of St Andrews University. "Khamenei put two people out there who cancel each other out." No one has forgotten how, in the wake of the 2009 repression, Rafsanjani spoke out critically for the opposition, urging the establishment, security forces, parliament and protesters all to act within the law. Rafsanjani has been isolated for the past four years and his children have fallen foul of the regime. Last September, his son Mehdi Hashemi was detained after returning from self-imposed exile in the UK. He is now out of prison but being tried. Rafsanjani's daughter, Faezeh, an activist and former MP, was sentenced to six months in prison after being found guilty of "spreading propaganda against the regime". Immediately after he registered, petitions began circulating signed by conservatives who attacked him as linked to "sedition". Kayhan and other hardline media outlets are calling for his disqualification on grounds of age. In a recent meeting with journalists and students, Rafsanjani was quoted as saying:"The system belongs to the people. It shouldn't be that some group does whatever it wants and doesn't allow ordinary people to object. It is they who own the state. God gave supremacy over the state only to the 12 holy (Shia) imams and after them anyone who becomes responsible should be elected by the people. No dictatorship would survive." Kouhyar Goudarzi, a prominent human rights activist who was jailed in 2009 and now lives in exile in Turkey, said: "If there's the slightest hope for change, that can only be achieved by Rafsanjani, given the country's current situation."
####2013 May 17####Green Movement activists live in fear as Iran's presidential election nears####Nearly four years have passed since the birth of Iran's green movement. Arising from the massive street protests against the official results of the 2009 presidential election, it endured brutal repression and finally receded in the face of arrests, beatings, and torture. Three of its most prominent figures – Mir-Hossein Mousavi, his wife, Zahra Rahnavard, and Mehdi Karroubi – have been under house arrest for more than two years. Other movement leaders are in prison or exile. According to a recent report by the Committee to Protect Journalists, Iranian authorities are holding at least 40 journalists in prison as the June presidential election approaches, the second-highest total in the world. But what has become of others in the movement's middle ranks inside the country, the political activists and journalists who stayed back? I meet up with Arash – not his real name – by a newsstand on Tehran's Enghelab Avenue. He has written for several of the newspapers that passersby are perusing on their way to work. As we walk to a nearby cafe, I ask what drew him to journalism. "Actually, I wanted to be a lawyer," he replies. "But I was looking for an identity, I wanted to be a part of what the majority of Iranians were experiencing. I saw that in journalism." After the 1997 election, which swept the reformist Mohammad Khatami to the presidency, many young Iranians began to define their identities through social action. "Some joined political parties," Arash explains, "others became involved in university associations. I started working as a journalist in the spring of 2000." Early that May, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, vexed by the Khatami administration's relaxation of state media control and censorship, ordered the judiciary to shut dozens of reformist papers in a single day; scores of prominent journalists were arrested in the raids. It was not a good time to set out in the field. Was he afraid? Reformist journalists "I wasn't really afraid, at least not as much as I am today. We made up the second generation of reformist journalists. There was a strong sense of camaraderie and the fear was less intense because it was shared. There were giants who would take the brunt of the crackdowns, people like [journalists] Akbar Ganji, Shams ol-Vaezin, Masoud Behnood. We, the younger ones, were not the first in line when it came to arrests." We enter Cafe Godot, a modern coffee house whose young patrons are filling the air with cigarette smoke. As Arash lights up as well, he tells me about the summer of 2009, when the demonstrations first erupted. What he has to say surprises me. "I didn't participate in street protests. Basically, I didn't believe in those tactics. I believed street presence would be fruitless by itself, that the regime had to be engaged in a dialogue. This point of view resulted in me becoming somewhat isolated among my friends." Still, he was not untouched by the crackdown that followed – his girlfriend was summoned to the ministry of information to answer for his writings. "It caused an emotional and ethical upheaval in me. I became more reclusive, more frightful, and in a way, a hostage to events, to fate. "The self-exile of many of my journalist friends ... I think that was the worst blow. I lost many of my friends, my emotional and professional supports … How long will it take to develop such friendships in my life again? All contacts with friends who have left Iran have been severed, because of my caution and their prudence. I have no contact with anyone on the other side. No one. And you certainly know our situation inside [Iran]." Chain smoking, he is now on his fourth cigarette. "I feel such monotony," he continues. "Each day is like the day before; not only do we have no psychological stability, we don't even have financial security. This profession is the opposite of others. I mean, the more your professional rank rises, the more you're in danger." So why does he persist? Or why not emigrate? "You know, this job has become a part of my identity," he says. "To tell you the truth, daily professional stress has become an addiction. Over the last three years I have become very stoic, and since censorship has made publications and dailies ineffectual, I have become more interested in research work. "If I emigrate, I would be limited to Persian media outlets. And, well, I consider journalism at home more effective and more important," he says, seemingly contradicting his preceding comment about the ineffectuality of the profession. Social cohesion In his view, the green movement is not "distilled in demonstrations and politics. It's a form of social cohesion and solidarity... It has had many other effects, in the arts, in the society at large." I ask him about the upcoming presidential election and his hopes for the future. "Hope is not limited to elections," he muses. "My hope rests on collective exercise of tolerance by the Iranian society and the political powers. Working to learn to listen ... The elections are just a family feud within the ruling echelons. See, we are nobodies in these elections." Another day, in a distant corner of the city, I visit Ahmad, a political activist whose name has also been changed for this article. Greeting me with a smile, he ushers me in to his one-bedroom apartment. Shelves filled with books on politics, sociology, and history line the walls; here and there a novel has slipped in. "In my last year of high school and first year of university, I became attracted to politics," he tells me. "Not in the sense in which I am involved today, but student activities. They drew me to politics – my first main foray was during the 2005 national elections." He worked at the reformist campaign headquarters, but Iranian voters, disenchanted by how little had changed during Khatami's two terms in office, turned in other directions and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad became president. Ahmad had been summoned by his university's disciplinary committee that year for publishing a series of pro-reformist bulletins. "They gave me a written warning, which could have had dangerous consequences." But he continued his political activism. "While the price [of activism] wasn't that high then, they were escalating step by step," he says. "The first such toll is like an ugly stigma. When you break through that, then it becomes normal. For example, the summons by the disciplinary committee that year indeed carried a high price, but afterward, even expulsion, which also happened to me, was no longer a big deal. It had become routine. Receiving sentences from judges and spending time in jail also became routine." Ahmad says that he was involved in the presidential campaign during 2009 as well. "I had lots of hope. Until two days before the election, I had lots of hope." He pauses, then carries on. "Two nights before the elections, I felt something was about to happen, [because of] things that Ahmadinejad said in the debates with Mousavi, Khamenei's June 4 speech, and the way the government began treating the [reformist] campaigners." He describes a commentary he wrote, published just three days before the election, in which he called on Iranians to be vigilant to forestall an event like the CIA-sponsored coup d'etat of August 1953 that toppled the democratic government of Mohammad Mosaddegh. "The evening of June 13, 2009, when they started announcing the election results, became one of the worst nights of my life. I was certain that there had been a coup." He says that the ensuing arrests of scores of political activists made him fearful, and he stayed away from his home for nearly 10 days until things settled down. "Later on, I discovered that the information ministry officials had been quite focused on me. I learned this from friends who had been summoned to the ministry." Political aims He says that when it became clear that the green movement was not a fleeting phenomenon, he felt that his political activities had become truly meaningful: "I spent a lot of energy then. I believed that the movement had to continue on its path even if its political aims were not realized in the short term. "As I had a history of detention, I tried to help people who were arrested ... More importantly, we covered events and demonstrations – we would collect photos and videos and send them to foreign media outlets." Ahmad says that he was prepared to be arrested at any moment. "I was ready to spend two or three years in prison, and that was not a high price for me. I was ready to pay that cost." In December 2009, the government brought the hammer down on dissent, sanctioning savage attacks on street demonstrators. There were no more large-scale protests until spring 2011, after the Arab spring had created an opening. That revival was short-lived, in part due to the incarceration of Mousavi and Karroubi with which the government responded to the marches of 25 Bahman (February 14). Ahmad concedes that he is no longer as politically active as he once was. "The main reason is that the communal energy has flagged. Not that I feel hopeless, like so many others whose lack of hope made them give up politics. In fact, the level of excitement among us activists is in direct proportion to society's enthusiasm and dynamism, which, well, has subsided at the moment ... But I still hold to the same vision I did prior to the 2009 election." Meanwhile, the developments of the last four years have affected him in more personal ways. "I have become a more sensitive person, which is normal. I've been detained twice during this period, interrogated and maltreated – events which affect you. My capacity to overlook daily incidents has diminished." He describes what it means to be a political activist in the Iran of 2013. "We really don't have such a thing called politics as it exists in the real world – not when the slightest overt action results in arrests. Most of our activities are in the virtual world, in the domains of Facebook and the Internet. We disseminate the news, launch a tweeter cascade, and of course attend casual gatherings at each other's homes." Rest and recuperate While he sometimes takes a week or even a month off from all political activity to rest and recuperate, he says he is not about to give up on his activism, or on his country. "The cost to my personal life has been high... but I never hold society at fault. I have never regretted the path I've embarked on. I am not arrogantly proud, but I think I am on the right path." What plans does he have for the few weeks remaining until the presidential vote? "I don't see much of a role for myself," he replies. "My level of political activity usually doesn't mirror society's, where there is a rise in activity at the approach of elections and then it tapers off. I try to continue at my own tempo." At the same time, he observes, one has to take advantage of such moments, especially when it is clear that there are deep rifts within the ruling system. Ahmad's mood appears to have changed over the course of our conversation. Speaking with greater ease, he says that if all the progressive political forces in the country focus on a single candidate, he might become active in the campaign, despite all the hardships he has experienced. Ultimately, he too contradicts himself. "The reality is that our society's development process is not one that will get somewhere quickly. We must use every opportunity, in any space that opens up for progress. These types of occasions are chances for resuscitation, for getting small creeks flowing again. If we don't take advantage of such opportunities, the society will in all likelihood end up politically incapacitated or dead, leaving a dark void with an unfathomable end. It has happened in other countries. "I will certainly participate in the electoral sphere, to help nurture democracy even a little. What happened after the 2009 election may recur or a moderate president may come to power. It is a win-win game. Of course, we have to pay the price that comes with it."
####2013 May 21####Iran: your stories####An Iranian woman sits on a bench in the Tochal mountainous area overlooking the capital Tehran, Iran. Photograph: Vahid Salemi/AP Contribute to this article GuardianWitness Powered by EE With the recent elections, there's a lot in the news about Iran and we'd like to see as many different perspectives on the country as possible. It doesn't have to be about the election, just something from your viewpoint. Whether you're living in Iran or you're Iranian and living elsewhere – if you have something to share, we'd like to hear from you. Please show us your pictures, video or text – though if you can, please write in English. Some of your experiences will be used in articles on the Guardian site. Though we'd like to hear from you, your security is most important. We recognise it may not always be safe to record or share your experiences – so please think about this when sending your content to GuardianWitness. قبل از آنکه چیزی را برای ما ارسال کنید پیش از هر چیز امنیت خودتان رادر نظر داشته باشید GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site. Contribute to this article GuardianWitness Powered by EE
####2013 May 22####Iran elections: Khomeini daughter attacks Rafsanjani exclusion####The daughter of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the founder of Iran's Islamic republic, has protested against the disqualification of Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani from next month's presidential election. Zahra Mostafavi has written to the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, calling on him to reinstate Rafsanjani in order to prevent the forming of a dictatorship. Neither Rafsanjani, a confidant of Khomeini and the opposition's favoured candidate, nor President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's close ally Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei were among the eight candidates approved by the guardian council to enter the ballot out of at least 680 people who registered this month. Ahmadinejad expressed dissatisfaction with the decision against Mashaei, describing it as an act of oppression. He promised to raise the issue with Khamenei. "In my opinion there will be no problem with the supreme leader and I will take up this issue until the last moment with him," Ahmadinejad said on Wednesday. "I am hopeful the problem will be solved." The guardian council, a powerful body of six jurists and six clergymen, vets all candidates to make sure they have sufficient loyalty to the Islamic republic and its principles, but critics say the group's function is undemocratic. It does not publicly give reasons for its decisions but Rafsanjani, 78, is said to have been barred because he was considered too old and Mashaei for being a nationalist figure. Rafsanjani's moderate support for the opposition Green movement is also believed to have counted against him. Unlike Mashaei's rejection, which was widely expected, Rafsanjani's exclusion has come as a surprise to many, especially supporters of the Islamic republic who regard him as one of Iran's great political survivors, formerly serving as president for two consecutive terms. Rafsanjani's supporters see many ironies in his disqualification, not least that he is currently head of the expediency council, which mediates between the guardian council and parliament. Two of the guardian council's members are older than Rafsanjani, and Khomeini was not much younger when he took power in 1979. In Mostafavi's letter – published on Jamaran.ir, a website close to Khomeini's family – she wrote: "Unfortunately I see that the guardian council has blocked him [Rafsanjani] for presidency … This act has no meaning other than creating a separation between two companions of the imam [Khomeini] and a disregarding of the enthusiasm and interest of the people towards the system and the elections," She wrote that Khomeini had thought of Rafsanjani as a potential candidate to succeed him as supreme leader, and cited a saying by her father with the message that the supreme leader should prevent any occurrence of dictatorship. "The gradual separation between the two of you [Khamenei and Rafsanjani] will be the biggest blow to the revolution and the system," she wrote. "The imam always said: 'These two are good when they are together.'" Rafsanjani has yet to respond to his disqualification but Eshaq Jahangiri, the head of his official campaign, told the Isna news agency that he would not object. Not all of Rafsanjani's supporters were upset with his disqualification. One said it showed "the empress has no clothes", referring to how Khamenei was tightening his grip on Iranian politics. Abolhassan Banisadr, Iran's first post-revolution president, who now lives in exile, told the BBC's Persian service that Rafsanjani's last political gamble had paid off by exposing the establishment's increasing dogmatism. Karim Sadjadpour, of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, tweeted: "Increasingly looking like Iran's presidential election will be one man, one vote. That one man's name is Ayatollah Khamenei." Wednesday's newspapers in Tehran largely avoided the disqualifications and instead focused on the eight men allowed to stand. Tehran residents on social networking websites reported a heavy presence of security forces on the streets on Tuesday night as the final candidate list was announced on state-run TV, and complained of an increase in online censorship and slower internet connections. The final list of candidates includes few reformist figures but they seem to have little chance of victory. Tehran's mayor, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, and Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, who is seen as Khamenei's favourite candidate, are on the list. Ali Motahari, a Tehran MP whose father was a prominent revolutionary figure, objected to Jalili's candidacy, saying he had little experience in executive positions. Many analysts believe that the disqualifications have smoothed the path for Jalili to potentially succeed Ahmadinejad. Mehdi Khalaji, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said on Tuesday that Khamenei was sending a message that Tehran would not compromise over its nuclear programme.
####2013 May 28####Iran election: Saeed Jalili offers little to solve country's mounting problems####Some in Tehran now regard Saeed Jalili, Iran's chief security official and lead negotiator in nuclear negotiations with world powers, as the frontrunner in the country's presidential election. The 47-year-old is one of eight candidates approved for the ballot on 14 June, of whom five are "principle-ists" proclaiming diehard loyalty to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader. But neither Jalili nor any other candidate has so far offered much in the election other than banalities – despite Iran's mounting problems, which now centre on the reduction of oil exports from 2.2m barrels a day to 1.1m in the past year due to tightening western sanctions. And when it comes to backing the beleaguered Syrian regime in an increasingly sectarian civil war threatening to spread regionally, many candidates are just promising more of the same. One principle-ist, the former parliamentary speaker Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel, recently told Die Welt, the German newspaper, that Iran needed "more national manufacturing, and a change in people's lifestyle". On the nuclear issue and regional tensions, he said western powers were "angry with an Iran that makes its own decisions". On becoming Iran's lead negotiator in 2007, Jalili, whose PhD thesis was on "the foreign policy of the prophet Muhammad", surprised western diplomats with his hectoring style. Jalili said on state television on Saturday that Iran's "executive and bureaucratic systems must be designed in ways that enable making the best use of our hardware and software potential", adding that threats – including sanctions – could be turned into opportunities. In a recent interview with the US-based Christian Science Monitor, Jalili said the US was hopeless because of the way the Iranian nation was defending its rights. "Today they are witnessing Iran's eye-catching progress, thanks to [Iranian] resistance." In the face of 13% unemployment and 32% inflation, candidates have been slow to advance specific ideas for improving economic growth the IMF projects at -1.3% for 2013, or to explain how they might finance productive investment with lower oil sales cutting government revenue in the financial year ending in March from a budgeted $117bn (£77bn) to $77bn. Some informed observers hold a theory that a "safe", if banal, candidate, close to Khamenei, might be well-placed to reach agreement with world powers over the nuclear question because there would be a more unified approach in the country's leadership and less danger of faction-fighting. Ramin Jahanbegloo, the Iranian philosopher exiled in Canada, has just argued this. "It is difficult to imagine that Iran can withstand the sanctions it is facing, which are breaking the backbone of the country's economy, for much longer," he wrote in the Indian Express. "In case [Ali-Akbar] Velayati [an adviser to Khamenei] or Haddad-Adel becomes president, a solution to US-Iran relations might be easier to achieve than would have been the case under a contentious presidency of [Esfandiar Rahim] Mashaei [an ally of outgoing President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad] or a reformist candidate who theoretically would not have been an underling of Ayatollah Khamenei." Among three candidates left in the election who might offer a more reforming presidency is Hassan Rowhani, a pragmatic conservative who led the Iranian team during talks with the European Union between 2003 and 2005, when Iran suspended uranium enrichment. At that time, Iran came closer to a substantive agreement on the nuclear programme than at any time since the 1979 revolution, but Rowhani was undermined by domestic critics who accused him of sacrificing the country's interests. This is less likely to happen with a president such as Jalili, said Sir Richard Dalton, Britain's ambassador to Iran from 2002 to 2006. "The unified leadership argument is a good one. But there will still be a threat of being outflanked on the right." Dalton pointed to another problem. "I don't think the team that one might envisage over the next two years will be as good at diplomacy as Khatami's team, although that is speculation. They are not short of clever people, but they are short of senior people experienced in the clumsy or with the wily ways of foreigners as their range of foreign high-level contacts has narrowed." One reformist-inclined analyst in Tehran said Iran's leaders were increasingly living in a bubble, and that he could see no strategy emerging for dealing with the international and regional challenges, principally US diplomatic pressure and its military buildup: "I fear the Iranian military apparatus is far more intent in maintaining its economic, political and repressive hold on Iran than it is in stopping this war of attrition, of which they are the ultimate target." Nor could the analyst see any strategy emerging from either Khamenei or one of his favoured presidential candidates for dealing with Shia-Sunni regional tensions and the risk that the growing escalation of an increasingly sectarian war in Syria would spread to Iraq and Lebanon: "For all the unquestioned and unquestionable powers of the leader, he is looking daily more like a man more interested in his personal powers than the priorities of his nation."
####2013 May 28####Iran opposition figures unite to condemn election as a charade####Iranian opposition figures with various political allegiances have set aside differences and united to condemn the 14 June presidential election as a charade, saying the exclusion of candidates showed it lacks legitimacy. Exiled Iranians from different political groups including republicans, leftists, constitutional monarchists and the green movement gathered for a two-day conference in Stockholm at the weekend, organised by the umbrella group United for Democracy in Iran (UDI) to scrutinise the vote. Iran's constitutional body last week disqualified a large number of candidates from standing in the election and only allowed eight candidates. Former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the leading opposition-backed candidate, was among those blocked from standing in the race. A statement issued at the end of the conference described the vote as "an insult to the Iranians", saying it violates their rights to free elections. "The policies of the Islamic Republic, both internally and externally, have created numerous crises and placed our homeland in a truly precarious position," it said. "In these circumstances, the regime in Tehran is staging an election that bears no resemblance to free and fair elections in accordance with international standards." Despite holding different and sometimes opposing views about the future of their country, UDI members, say holding a free election is the only way out of the current political and economical crisis in Iran. "The adventuresome foreign policy of the regime, that has sacrificed Iran's national interests for the backward and self-serving viewpoints of a few, has positioned our country in unprecedented isolation, brought to bear back-breaking sanctions and imperilled the security of the nation," the UDI said. "Free and fair election… is the most realistic and least costly way of bringing different viewpoints together and pave the way for the achievement of democracy to save our country from ruin and chaos." Participants said they were not representing their political groups and were only attending in personal capacities. Prominent figures at the conference included lawyer Mehrangiz Kar, former diplomat Hossein Alizadeh and Mohsen Sazegara, a founding member of Iran's elite revolutionary guards who has fallen foul of the authorities for voicing opposition. "We are convinced that only democracy – true democracy – can save Iran, which is why it is so important to shine a light on the phony democracy being practiced by the regime," said Sazegara. Critics of UDI say the group has shown little influence given its presence in exile and has not yet succeeded in attracting a great deal of following inside the country despite holding three conferences in the past. Supporters concede it is yet to bear fruit but say that for the first time it has brought under the same umbrella opposition figures who have refused to work together in the past. Opposition leaders and former presidential candidates Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi are currently under house arrest in Tehran. Iran's state-run media has not remained silent in reaction to the conference. Keyhan, a conservative newspaper whose director is directly appointed by the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said UDI's slogan of free elections was merely an excuse to pave ways for military intervention in Iran. The Young Journalists Club, affiliated to state-run television, labelled the group as terrorists who hold anti-Iran and anti-Islam views. The Stockholm conference was held at the parliament of Sweden by the invitation of the Liberal People's party. In his speech at the gathering, Swedish MP Fredrik Malm predicted no change through ballot box in Iran. "We can unfortunately not imagine any change in Iran through ballot boxes. This is not free and fair elections in Iran. The regime does not believe in necessity of respecting international standards," he said. • This article was amended on 31 May 2013. The original said that the Stockholm conference was held at the invitation of the Swedish Democratic party.
####2013 May 30####US to boost aid to Iranian dissidents as countries jostle over Syria peace talks####Washington responded to what it sees as growing Iranian interference in Syria on Thursday by announcing help for dissidents in Iran and issuing fresh warnings over Tehran's "support for terrorists". Reeling from a series of setbacks in Syria, the US attempted to get back on the diplomatic front foot with a series of steps likely to send a coded signal about its desire to curb Iranian influence in the region. The Treasury department said it would exempt US technology companies from sanctions and allow them to supply Iranian consumers with secure internet and mobile phone services such as instant messaging and encryption software. It specifically bans government or commercial sales. Protests before the last Iranian election in 2009 relied heavily on Twitter and other social networking services to flourish, and privately US officials pointed to new upcoming elections in Iran as a factor in the timing of their announcement. "As the Iranian government attempts to silence its people by cutting off their communication with each other and the rest of the world, the United States will continue to take action to help the Iranian people exercise their universal human rights, including the right to freedom of expression," said the statement by the US Treasury Department. "The people of Iran should be able to communicate and access information without being subject to reprisals by their government." The Treasury department also imposed new visa restrictions on 60 Iranian officials it claimed had been involved in "human rights abuses related to political repression". And in a separate development, the US State Department published its annual review of global terrorism on Thursday, singling out "a marked resurgence of Iran's state sponsorship of terrorism, through its Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps-Qods Force, its Ministry of Intelligence and Security, and Tehran's ally Hezbollah".  "Iran's state sponsorship of terrorism and Hezbollah's terrorist activity have reached a tempo unseen since the 1990s with attacks plotted in Southeast Asia, Europe and Africa," claimed the report. "Both Iran and Hezbollah also continued to provide a broad range of support to the Assad regime, as it continues its brutal crackdown against the Syrian people." All three initiatives against Iran came on a day when President Obama's strategy in the region is under growing pressure as the prospects for US-sponsored peace talks receded. The US disagreed with Israeli criticism that the setbacks were caused in part by a European Union decision to suspend its arms embargo – a move which the Russians have sought to exploit to justify their missile sales. "We don't [agree with such arguments]," said State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki. "We have applauded the actions of the Europeans and we continue to support the decision that they took." The State Department also revealed that it would continue to assist the rebels and consider arming them even if they refuse to attend the peace talks scheduled in Geneva next month. US support for the Geneva talks as a way to encourage Assad to step down has been undermined by rebel disagreements over whether to even take part, but Washington struck a patient note on Thursday, acknowledging the rebels had been hit hard by the intervention of Iranian-backed Hezbollah fighters. "We share [the rebel's] deep concerns over the situation on the ground in Syria and condemn in the strongest terms the acknowledgement from Iran that Hezbollah militants have taken an active role," said Psaki. "Emotions are running very high – that is natural given what they have gone through – but we encourage them not to derail a political solution and encourage them to move forward with participation [in the peace talks]." Psaki refused to confirm reports that the US ambassador to Syria, who had been leading talks with the rebels in Ankara, had announced he would be stepping down – but paid tribute to his long service and said he had been "working his tail off". "It is a challenging time and if there were easy solutions we would be using them," concluded Psaki.
####2013 May 31####Iran accused of using online censorship and hacking to sway presidential poll####Iranian authorities are mounting a sophisticated campaign of online censorship, hacking attacks and filtering to influence the country's imminent presidential elections, according to reports from people inside the country and security researchers outside. Iranians are finding that text messages or websites containing certain words, such as candidates' names or slogans, are being intermittently blocked, while some news sites within the country are taken offline entirely. Those that try to relocate overseas have been subjected to extensive DDoS (distributed denial of service) attacks – which make it impossible for regular users to access websites – from computers in Russian or eastern Europe, while reporters and activists have reported receiving phishing emails containing viruses or surveillance software. The approach marks a stepped increase in sophistication in internet filtering in Iran. During the 2009 election and the uprising that followed, authorities sometimes simply turned off the internet, or text messaging, across the country for days at a time. Now they are working in a far more targeted manner. The censorship also reflects the country's internal divisions. Until a year ago Iran's ministry of information and communications technology was in charge of policing the country's online community but in 2012 the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, ordered officials to set up the Supreme Council of Virtual Space, a body that is closer to Khamenei than to the outgoing president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. That council sits at the top of a complex web of organisations that monitor and filter communications in the country. Collin Anderson, a Washington DC-based security researcher who works with Iranian activists and NGOs, said the censorship tracked such internal divisions, with Ahmadinejad's favoured presidential candidate, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, among the targets of filtering. "Mashaei and Ahmadinejad's slogan was 'Spring is arriving', and slogans pertaining to spring and to Mashaei's name were being disrupted in SMS messages during the campaign," he said. "They were using the censorship capabilities of the state to stifle the abilities of these individuals to organise." Anderson said Iran's carefully targeted approach reduced the economic impact of internet shutdowns, and also confounded attempts to circumvent such controls. "Four years ago the response was to take down the mobile networks for 45 days, or block text messages for certain times. This is a lot more specific; it's keyword-based filtering," he said. "They have a calculation: how much they're being threatened, and how much the status quo is being threatened, will directly influence the degree of internet censorship. They try to minimise the collateral and economic damage." Most of the computer equipment needed to monitor and block communications in such ways is "dual-use": the same capabilities allow for the traffic management needed to operate and keep the internet working in any country. Nonetheless, Anderson said his research suggested the vast majority of the infrastructure bought by Iran in recent years had been from the Chinese provider Huawei, which has been subject to congressional investigation in the US and parliamentary enquiries in the UK. People inside Iran have felt the effects of the restrictions. More than 5m websites are blocked in Iran, including Facebook and Twitter (but Google+ is still accessible). Millions of Iranians get round blocked addresses with help from proxy websites or virtual private network services, but in recent weeks users across Iran have complained about unprecedented difficulties in using VPN services. "I have no idea what has happened but VPNs hardly work these days," said Hassan, a Tehran citizen. "There are times when the internet is dead in Iran. A few weeks ago, on the very night when the regime announced the final list of candidates and the disqualifications, VPNs were completely down. It shows they feared revolt and were clamping down harshly." Iran's constitutional body, the Guardian Council, has barred a large number of candidates from standing in the 14 June election. It allowed only eight candidates to run, and disqualified former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the opposition's favourite, from standing, to the dismay of the country's many reformers. "It seems to me that internet filtering in Iran has just become more complicated and more intricate," said an Iranian journalist who works for the conservative media in Tehran but asked to remain anonymous. "When I am surfing ordinary websites that the regime has no problem with, I have good speed and can access them easily, but sometimes it takes me ages to open my Gmail account or use some of its features, such as when I want to upload images or videos. I wonder where Iran got its hands on such complicated filtering technologies." Former Iranian president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, centre, registers his candidacy for the 14 June polls. Photograph: Ahmad Halabisaz/Xinhua Press/Corbis Iran's capabilities allow it to let normal web traffic through at high speed, while slowing sites such as Gmail to what researchers estimate is just 5% of regular traffic. Sophisticated online traffic such as VPNs – which allow for anonymous internet surfing and the bypassing of official censors – have been subtly disrupted, so that the connection is reset once a minute. In recent years, Iran has set up a body in charge of actively finding websites that are deemed un-Islamic or politically offensive, and blocking their websites. In December, the head of Iran's cyber-police - known as Fata - was sacked from his position when the death in custody of blogger Sattar Beheshti brought huge embarrassment for the authorities. Iran has even crowdsourced such efforts: web users complained recently that the authorities had even taken one step forward and developed a software application (a Mozilla add-on called Filter_Internet.ir, now removed) that allowed people to report websites for official filtering. The US announced this week that it would lift certain sanctions on the sale of consumer communication tools to Iran, including mobile phones and computers, in a move to help dissidents to avoid the regime's efforts. "As the Iranian government attempts to silence its people by cutting off their communication with each other and the rest of the world, the United States will continue to take action to help the Iranian people exercise their universal human rights, including the right to freedom of expression," said the statement by the US Treasury Department. The National Iranian American Council, based in Washington DC, welcomed the US's move to ease sanctions on communications. "Lifting these sanctions is an extremely positive step," said NIAC's policy director, Jamal Abdi. "Iranians have been squeezed between a repressive government on one side and crippling sanctions on the other. Now the US is taking steps to ensure that, as Iran's government cracks down on internet access and SMS, sanctions will no longer block mobile phones, software and hardware." Social revolution Most of the major social networks might be banned or blocked in Iran, but that hasn't stopped the country's presidential candidates maintaining extensive social media presences. All the major campaigns have accounts on social networks, including Twitter, Facebook and Google+, with accounts putting out messages in English and Farsi, and responding to media queries and other social users. Several accounts are marked "official", even if not explicitly acknowledged by the campaigns, and one campaign account, belonging to 78-year-old former president Akbar Rafsanjani, even confirmed via Twitter that the candidate had been excluded from the presidential race by Iran's Guardian Council. Saeed Jalili, thought to be Ayatollah Khamanei's preferred candidate, is widely seen as having the best social media operation - podcasts, a Twitter account, two Facebook accounts and a Google+ account, all of which are well produced. "What's ironic is in 2009 there was this false notion of a Twitter revolution, and this could actually be it," said security researcher Collin Anderson. "Even in the most internet-repressive state, now they're using Obama-style tactics to get out their message." James Ball Different campaigns tend to gravitate towards different social networks, though, he added. Campaigns seen as affiliated to conservatives in Iran tended to have a stronger Google+ presence, he concluded, while reformists prefer Twitter.
####2013 April 17####Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani appears to rule out candidacy for Iranian election####Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the embattled former president of Iran, has finally spoken openly about the rift between him and the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. In a meeting with former state governors from the reformist and moderate camps, Rafsanjani is reported to have put to rest any speculation that he might declare his candidacy for the upcoming presidential election, saying that he did not foresee a situation in which he and Khamenei could work together. The meeting, according to Saham news agency, was organised by the ex-governors in an attempt to persuade the 78-year-old politician to add his name to the list of candidates. According to those present, he referred to his recent sit-down with Khamenei, saying that the supreme leader apparently does not perceive the country as facing the same problems that concern Rafsanjani. Since the last presidential election in 2009, which was followed by massive protests and a harsh crackdown, Rafsanjani has repeatedly said he believes Iran to be in a state of crisis, both internally and externally, and that only a more pluralistic and moderate approach can solve it. Rafsanjani's tenure as president, from 1989 to 1997, was by all measures a repressive period, characterised by tight media control and political assassinations. But after he left office, perhaps as a way of maintaining a foothold in a regime in which Khamenei and his hardline allies have played an increasingly dominant role, he placed his weight behind the reform movement. Until now, both men have voiced their disagreements through proxies, save for the one occasion, following the disputed 2009 poll, when Khamenei publicly declared that his views were "closer to Mr [Mahmoud] Ahmadinejad's" than Rafsanjani's. Ahmadinejad had built much of his 2009 re-election campaign around opposition to Rafsanjani, who was widely seen as a symbol of economic corruption. As the relationship between the supreme leader and Ahmadinejad began to sour, the latter ceased his rhetorical attacks on Rafsanjani. But the conservatives in Khamenei's camp have managed to systematically isolate and marginalise the former president. Two years ago Rafsanjani lost his position as head of the assembly of experts, the one body in the Islamic Republic's constitutional system with the theoretical power to supervise and remove the supreme leader. Rafsanjani's daughter, Faezeh, was sentenced to six months in jail for her open support of the opposition Green movement; and his son, Mehdi, has been in and out of Evin prison on similar, even more serious, charges. At the meeting with the ex-governors, Rafsanjani is reported to have said "the leader no longer trusts me, though I acted as a brother toward him". He reflected further on the history of their relationship, which began as an extremely close political collaboration. "I was the one who brought Mr Khamenei to Tehran from [the provincial city of] Mashhad and, despite opposition from many revolutionary friends, I facilitated his joining the central committee of the revolution … The rest is well-known." Rafsanjani apparently referred to his role in Khamenei's unlikely ascendency to the supreme leadership. After the death of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, when Rafsanjani recognised that he did not have sufficient support among the senior clerics to attain the position himself, he played an indispensable role in strong-arming the Assembly of Experts to appoint Khamenei. Rafsanjani also reportedly lashed out at the Revolutionary Guards during the meeting, criticising the military organisation's vast economic and political influence. The Guards became a significant economic force during Rafsanjani's presidential tenure, when he exerted great sway over them. He apparently underplayed this point in his talk, saying that during his presidency the extent of the Guards' activity was limited to its engineering corps and projects such as national road building. "Now," he said, "they control the economy as well as domestic and foreign policy and they will not be satisfied with anything short of the entire country." Only the supreme leader could rein in the Revolutionary Guards, he added, and seeing how there is no hope for collaboration between himself and Khamenei, "it would not be wise" for him to run for the presidency. Less than two months before the 13 June election, the list of candidates is still uncertain. A host of different individuals and coalitions have declared their intention to run or put forward a nominee, but the Guardian Council, an oversight body half of whose members were appointed directly by Khamenei, reserves the right to pick and choose among the candidates. Some reformists had hoped that either Rafsanjani or another former president, Mohammad Khatami, whom the regime would have a hard time disqualifying, would enter the campaign. Others have called for a boycott. While speculation about Khatami's decision persists, the hardliners seem unconcerned. The only likely competition seems to be between representatives of the conservative groups already in power.
####2012 September 07####Who will succeed Ahmadinejad in Iran's presidential election next year?####It might not be long until Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's presidential term comes to an end but he doesn't seem to believe it will finally happen. During a recent interview on state television in which a journalist mentioned that his presidency would finish within a year, the president interjected, laughing: "How do you know?" Under Iranian law Ahmadinejad cannot run for a third term, and on Friday officials announced the next election would be held on 14 June 2013. The last was in 2009 when Ahmadinejad took office for a second term amid allegations of fraud and unrest. The president's joking response prompted speculation that he planned to preserve his dwindling power by grooming someone in his inner circle as his possible successor. Ahmadinejad's opponents pointed the finger at his close confidant and chief of staff, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, as a likely candidate. Mohammad Dehghan, who sits on the parliament's executive board, criticised Ahmadinejad and accused him of pursuing a Putin/Medvedev-style reshuffle. "Ahmadinejad should know that Iran is not Russia and he is not Putin. Ahmadinejad's Medvedev [a reference to Mashaei] has no position among the public opinion and he will not have any position in future," he said, according to the semi-official Mehr news agency. The president's office denied suggestions that Mashaei would put his name forward for the presidency. Mashaei fell foul of conservatives after a power struggle last year between supporters of Ahmadinejad and those close to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Khamenei's supporters believe that the confrontation stemmed from the increasing influence of Mashaei, an opponent of greater involvement of clerics in politics, whom they described as the head of a "deviant current" within the president's inner circle. Speculation is rife about who will be Ahmadinejad's successor. Tehran's mayor, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, is one name often mentioned. Another is Saeed Jalili, the chief nuclear negotiator and a close ally of Khamenei. Many also tip Ali Larijani, the parliamentary speaker. One thing is clear: whoever takes the mandate, it will not be Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
####2013 April 02####Don't underestimate Ahmadinejad's chosen heir in Iran election####It is time to think the unthinkable. Mahmoud Ahmedinejad's controversial aide, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, has a chance of winning the presidential election in June. The Iranian president has been grooming his chief of staff to step into his shoes, although many Iranians assume that Mashaei will not be allowed to stand because he will not pass the necessary vetting by the Guardian Council. Mashaei is detested both by senior clerics, who resent his tendency to put Iranian nationalism on a par with Islam, and by politicians in the fundamentalist (or "principle-ist") camp. Many speak openly of a "deviant current" led by Ahmadinejad and Mashaei. But don't underestimate Mashaei. His ally and relative by marriage Ahmadinejad has been consistently underestimated since he first came forward as a presidential candidate in 2005. At the time, he refused a request from Ali Akbar Nateq-Nuri, eminence grise of the principle-ist camp, to stand down in favour of "better placed" candidates. He has repeatedly shown an ability to exploit the vanities and misunderstandings of his critics – whether in Iran or outside. He has embraced the myths that he was a hostage-taker in 1979 or later a Revolutionary Guard officer. Throughout, this "man of the people", this outsider to the political class, has shown a telling grasp of the mentality of the mass of the people. Now Ahmadinejad and Mashaei are planning to make it difficult for the Council to block Mashaei's candidacy. Their strategy is fourfold. Firstly, populist measures, including cash handouts for most Iranians, have maintained the president"s and government"s popularity, especially among the poorer people who voted for Ahmadinejad in 2005 and 2009. Secondly, the president has claimed he has dossiers on corruption in high places – which he highlighted in parliament in February when he played a tape purporting to show a brother of parliamentary speaker, Ali Larijani, engaged in insider dealing. We – and members of the Guardian Council – can only speculate over what other material the president has accumulated. Thirdly, the president and his allies have been calling for a "fair" election. After the unrest following the disputed 2009 election, reformist candidates are unlikely to be approved by the Guardian Council. For the poll to have any credibility and for voters to be motivated, some contest is needed, and yet the candidates emerging from the principle-ist camp – perhaps with the exception of Mohammad Baqer Ghalibaf, the mayor of Tehran – lack charisma. The recent call through the Fars news agency from Mashaei for a "healthy and enthusiastic" presidential election signals the continuing determination of the Ahmadinejad-Mashaei camp to press this point. If they can generate a head of steam before the matter goes to the Council, then pressure on the Council increases. It is important also for Ayatollah Khamenei to secure a reasonably competitive election to bolster support for the "system" at a time of economic hardship due to sanctions and while sensitive negotiations with the west are needed to head off the prospect of military attack. Fourthly, while Ahmadinejad and Mashaei lack friends in the Guardian Council, they still have their hands on levers of government power, including those at the Interior Ministry, which has important supervisory powers over the presidential election. Their manoeuvres could also makes it difficult for the supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who might be under pressure to instruct the Council to reverse a decision to bar a candidate, as he did in 2005 to allow the reformist Mostafa Moein to run. But none of this would matter if Mashaei did not have a good chance of winning. So does he? "He can take the whole thing because he will be perceived as the anti-establishment candidate and because he has shown a steely resolve in the face of pretty wicked attacks, even when they come from those closest to the leader," a well-placed analyst in Tehran said. "Mashaei is deeply intelligent and apparently very calm, while most of the other candidates should be viewed as museum pieces and not persons who can take Iran one step forward. If Mashaei can get on the ballot, he can win without any real manipulation." Ali Akbar Velayati, the Supreme leader's senior advisor, seems to agree. He recently warned Fars news agency that if principle-ists were not united, then "those who are known as the 'deviant current'" might triumph. "We must not let the election go to a run-off," he said, no doubt reflecting fears that Mashaei would milk the extra public focus in a two-way second ballot, which would take place between the top two if no candidate won 50% on the first ballot. This all leaves some important choices for Ayatollah Khamenei. For the Guardian Council to block Mashaei could provoke a serious political crisis and undermine the popular credibility of the election. And yet for Mashaei to take part and win could mean the continuation of the inflationary populist economic policies, confusion in foreign policy, and tensions with senior clerics that have marked Ahmadinejad"s presidency. Unless, of course, a president Mashaei and Ayatollah Khamenei could reforge the kind of alliance that characterised the early years of the Ahmadinejad presidency. This could see a diminished influence for senior clerics and greater use of an "egalitarian" nationalism as a unifying ideology. "Ayatollah Khamenei is interested in a person with whom he can make a deal and agree on some ground rules," said the analyst. "He knows none of the candidates announced so far can inspire anybody and he knows too the system needs a good clean if it is not to go into one of those long declines the country knows too well since the demise of the Safavids. Khamenei is looking to serve out his time in dignity, and he knows there has been no real success in cultivating a successor class of clerics under 40. Khamenei is not going to keep piling incompetence on incompetence, so perhaps Mashaei would make a good transition figure instead of the leader trying to hold back the sea." Transition to what? External opponents of the Islamic Republic will, as ever, say towards the collapse of the "system". But Ayatollah Khamenei might think Mashaei could give a revamped "system" a new lease of life. Gareth Smyth has covered Middle Eastern politics since 1992 and was based in Tehran 2003-07
####2013 August 09####Questions for Ali Jannati, set to be Iran's new minister of culture####Although Ali Jannati, the man in line to be Iran's next minister of Islamic culture and guidance, has spent roughly two decades as a diplomat, some questions still stump him. "Your last name makes me worry a bit," a journalist from the reformist newspaper Bahar said to him recently. That's because his last name is that of one of Iran's most radical hardline clerics. Ali Jannati is the son of Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, for 21 years the head of the Guardian Council, the body that has disqualified thousands of candidates from participation in presidential, parliamentary, and local elections. Ayatollah Jannati has often been criticised for his extreme views. In August 2010, before he was placed under house arrest, Green Movement leader Mousavi protested the execution of two political prisoners and the ayatollah's outspoken support of the sentence. "The tragedy currently taking place in our prisons is the result of the mindset of people like Jannati and his ilk," Mousavi said at the time. "Their behaviours and attitudes display all the hallmarks of brutal authoritarianism." In May, the Guardian Council disqualified Ayatollah Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani – head of the Expediency Council and a former president – from the presidential campaign. It was in this context that the Bahar reporter made his remark. "Those who know me and know my work background would never make the mistake of thinking that issues of belief are somehow genetic," Ali Jannati replied. "It's not as though I have inherited my beliefs and attitudes from my father's DNA." Jannati's résumé backs up that assertion. In contrast with his father, he maintains a close personal relationship with Rafsanjani and is considered an integral member of his camp. In 1988, when Rafsanjani was speaker of the Majles, Jannati oversaw his administrative affairs. During Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's first term as president, Jannati acted as the interior minister's political deputy, but his close relationship with Rafsanjani eventually led to his ousting, and he returned to his former job as a diplomat in Kuwait. With his name now linked to one of the most politically complicated positions in post-revolutionary Iran, with great influence over the media and arts, he is once again in the limelight. In particular, journalists, who suffered grievously from official suppression over the past eight years, hold out the hope that he can ease the many restrictions on their freedom to report the news. "I think it'll be more like Khatami's second presidency, 2001 – 2005, rather than the golden age of his first," said Marjan, a 33-year-old bank employee in Tehran. She was 17 at the beginning of that "golden age," when the reformist president Mohammad Khatami appointed Ataollah Mohajerani to the top post at the ministry of Islamic culture and guidance. "My father would buy three newspapers a day," she said. During the Mohajerani period, the judiciary did not hesitate to shut down media outlets it found politically objectionable, but the ministry made it easy for journalists to secure permits to reopen their old newspapers or start brand new ones. Many prominent figures in Iranian cinema, such as Masoud Kimiai, Dariush Mehrjui, and Ebrahim Hatamikia, enjoyed periods of prolific output, and theatres bustled with excited filmgoers. For the first time since shortly after the 1979 revolution, singers received permits to make pop music albums. In publishing, censorship loosened and in some fields even ceased altogether, and countless translations of foreign books were released. The same policies that made Mohajerani a beloved figure among Iran's youth and middle classes, swept up in the popular wave of reformism, also made him persona non grata in the eyes of the ideological conservatives and religious fundamentalists who dominate the establishment. He barely survived a vote of confidence in the fifth Majles and his credentials were constantly challenged by Guardian Council members. On one occasion, at the end of Friday Prayers in Tehran, one of his fingers was broken when he and and leading reformist Abdollah Nouri were physically attacked by ideological adversaries. Under relentless pressure, he resigned as minister in April 2000. If Mohajerani instituted a golden age, then the two men Ahmadinejad picked to fill the office Mohajerani once held – Mohammad Hossein Saffar Harandi, followed by Mohammad Hosseini – oversaw the "dark ages" in the eyes of many. Journalists unwilling to toe the government line were already subject to heightened censorship during Ahmadinejad's first term, but after the postelection unrest in 2009, the Islamic culture and guidance ministry brought much progressive journalism in Iran to a grinding halt and placed draconian restrictions on those allowed to continue in the trade. However, the articles appearing in the reformist press over the past two months already indicate some loosening of the reins. In an interview last week with the Ghanoon newspaper, Ali Jannati insisted that he had not conferred with his father regarding his current nomination. "I haven't been in touch with the Islamic culture and guidance ministry in the past few years, but based on what I've been hearing from my friends in the arts and in journalism, they've been giving most everyone quite a hard time," he said. "People in all fields have been struggling. Our friends in cinema, literature, music, and the press have all been dealing with the same issues. I imagine that ultimately, this new government will have to make changes at a very basic level." "If we approach the situation with an open mind and treat media as a kind of 'fourth estate' that exists to make our institutions more democratic, we can work together towards more government transparency." According to the editor-in-chief of a prominent reformist newspaper, who requested anonymity, the culture minister can make a major difference in reinvigorating the Iranian press. "I can't stress enough the importance of the role of the culture and guidance ministry," said the editor. "They are the only ones responsible for issuing permits to press outlets. There is a kind of supervising committee under the remit of this ministry that can theoretically prevent the closure of news outlets, and its view of journalists differs. During Ahmadinejad's presidency, the ministry was more like a government prosecutor trying to bring down all the critical outlets." The editor said he thought Ali Jannati was a capable official. "He's a diplomat who has travelled around and seen the world. He has an open mind. He's gained a reputation for himself; he doesn't really need to gain the trust of others as he's already proven himself to many different political groups." Ali Akbar Mahdi, a sociology professor at Ohio Wesleyan University who follows Iranian politics closely, said Ali Jannati "has had some role in all of the preceding administrations and has never been one to simply toe the line of a particular group". He added: A"t the same time, he is a fundamentalist, and his standards in terms of execution and selection of staff indicate that he favours hardworking, competent people who, at the same time, are firm believers in Velayaat-e Faghih" – the guardianship of the Islamic jurist, the doctrine by which Ayatollah Khamenei rules.
####2013 July 04####Iran: how 'Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's candidate' lost the election####Since the announcement of Hassan Rouhani's victory in the 14 June presidential election, pundits in Iran and the west have sought to answer the question of how Ayatollah Ali Khamenei let a candidate who was not his favourite win. Many are convinced the election was preplanned and engineered by Khamenei, the purported puppet master. But that view is based on an inherent misunderstanding of the nature of politics in Iran and the thinking of Iranian politician – or at least the thinking of Khamenei. Iranian politics is conceived as a packaged project, conducted by the supreme leader according to a largely rigid mindset, and coloured by personal sentiment. In reality, politics in Iran, like elsewhere, is a complex process in which even the most powerful player, faced with an unfolding, unpredicted set of events, has no choice but to re-evaluate, recalculate, and eventually choose from a limited array of options. No one can get into Khamenei's head, though it is ever-tempting to try. The problem with speculation – including ours – is that from a pool of inconsistent deeds and statements, one or another can always be retroactively chosen and presented as explanatory. For example, some have claimed that the acceptance of Rouhani – who repeatedly criticised Iran's approach to the nuclear issue during his campaign – demonstrated that Khamenei was worried about the impact of international sanctions and had given the green light to accede to western demands. But they do not take into consideration that in his remarkable speech two days before the election, in which for the first time he asked those who opposed the regime to vote for the sake of their country, Khamenei implicitly repeated his stance on the state's nuclear prerogatives: "The more weakness you show and [the more you] retreat, the more the enemy will advance forward." Rather than attempt to analyse Khamenei as a figure with absolute power whose shifts and contradictions are due primarily to internal, mental struggles, it is much more revealing to see him as an individual situated within a web of sociopolitical forces that both affect and are affected by him. This sheds light on a significant consequence of the election that has been largely neglected in its aftermath: how the severe defeat suffered by Saeed Jalili – the secretary of the Supreme National Security Council and Iran's top nuclear negotiator – effectively marginalised the radical conservatives who supported him, the same group that had been most vocal in its devotion to the supreme leader. This inevitably brings us back to the 2009 presidential election. The dispute over the results four years ago had consequences unforeseen by the regime's top ranks, dragging them into a struggle for survival. After 3 million people marched in silence through Tehran, giving birth to the Green Movement, Khamenei gave a sermon at Friday prayers, assuming that, as in the past, he could have the final say and end the protests. This did not happen. Instead the Green Movement and the threat it posed to the ruling system grew, as Iranians took to the streets with shouts of "Death to Khamenei". The supreme leader expected the regime's elite to publicly support him and affirm the official vote count. But, in his words, much of the elite "chose circumspection" to save their own skins and remained silent. This left an opening for a radical faction among the so-called principlists, the political and religious conservatives who dominated the regime, to take the reins. Though for years these radicals had called themselves the most devoted followers of the supreme leader, they had previously maintained only a marginal role in the polity. Now a desperate Khamenei relied on them, as they were the only ones ready to support a battle with the Green Movement on the streets. When Ahmadinejad became president in 2005, the radicals had aligned themselves with him and for the first time gained a substantial foothold in the government. Their harsh rhetoric was mostly directed at the reformists and centrists like former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, but at the same time they tried to uproot the traditional faction of the principlists. Their honeymoon period with Ahmadinejad soon ended and they decided to officially declare themselves under the banner of Jebheh-e Paaydaari – the Perseverance, or Stability, Front. It has been widely reported how the Guardian Council had blocked reformists from running for office in the last several presidential and, especially, parliamentary elections. But it is less acknowledged how afraid this body of traditional principlists was of the radicals in their own camp, whose spiritual leader was the fundamentalist Ayatollah Mohammad Taghi Mesbah Yazdi, the only ayatollah to have bowed down in front of Khamenei. In the 2006 voting for the Assembly of Experts, which is tasked on paper with supervising the supreme leader, the Guardian Council disqualified a group of Mesbah Yazdi's disciples, including his son. Despite having openly stated his disbelief in popular elections, Yazdi himself was voted in to the Assembly. Other principlists endeavoured strenuously and, in the end, successfully to prevent him from becoming the body's speaker. Jebheh-e Paaydaari saw the opportunity to gain power after the disputed 2009 election, and criticised others in the principlist camp with increasing severeity. In January 2012, Assembly of Experts speaker, Mohammad Reza Mahdavi Kani, revealed that he had complained directly to the supreme leader about allowing the radicals to behave in this manner. Referencing a Persian proverb to suggest that Khamenei would be abandoned by his other allies if he continued to condone the radicals, Mahdavi Kani reportedly said: "The way some [of your] friends are behaving, only Ali and his pond will remain." For all of their claims to blindly follow the supreme leader, the radicals on many occasions presented him with a fait accompli. In November 2011, for instance, the followers of the factions stormed the British embassy in Tehran, an act condemned by Khamenei as well as commanders of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. It should thus not have been surprising when the Guardian Council disqualified the Jebheh-e Paaydaari's main candidate, Kamran Bagheri Lankarani – described by Yazdi as the most righteous person "on earth and under the sky" – from this year's presidential election. Disappointed, the radicals closed ranks behind Jalili, who had previously failed to attract an endorsement from any principlist faction. During the campaign, instead of attacking the more moderate candidates, Jalili's new supporters went after their principlist rivals, deriding them as "silent parties in the sedition", unwilling to openly support the supreme leader during the 2009 protests. At their rallies and religious gatherings they coined slogans to suggest their candidate was Khamenei's choice; "I vote for Jalili for the love of my leader!" went one oft-repeated chant. All the other approved presidential candidates also had direct connections with the supreme leader, but none dared claim he was Khamenei's favourite. The election saw further splits among the principlists. While Guard high commanders – including Ghasem Soleimani, commander of the elite Quds Force – supported Tehran mayor and former Guard air force chief, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, high-ranking conservative clerics backed Ali Akbar Velayati, the supreme leader's top foreign affairs adviser. On one point, though, most principlists were agreed: while Rouhani was hardly their favourite, it was Jalili and his supporters who were most despised. Hoping he would intervene in the election, the radicals ultimately tried to force Khamenei's hand. A few hours after voting ended, a radical news website unexpectedly announced the results from ballot box number 110, in which the supreme leader had cast his still-secret vote: Jalili was in the lead. But Khamenei ended up joining the consensus that the radicals needed to be restrained. It may be asked, then, why the supreme leader trusted Jalili to be Iran's top nuclear negotiator in the first place. But the question, so framed, again tries to dig into Khamenei's mind instead of looking at his actions within a multivalent political context in which different power cliques must be served. It also buys into the very representation of Khamenei promoted by Jalili's supporters – that he was particularly trusted by the supreme leader. In allowing the radicals to lose, Khamenei also liberated himself from much of their influence. As one principlist reportedly said, "Jalili's supporters had taken the supreme leader as their hostage." Indeed, they had appropriated Khamenei's image and succeeded in selling it to most of his opponents. Pundits joined in, reading his mind based on the radicals' self-serving representation. If the fade-out of the radical faction continues, it should not be a surprise to see a shift in speculation about the supreme leader. After all, the moderates and even some reformists have learned how to appropriate Khamenei and represent him according to their own narration – as seen in post-election expressions of gratitude to him such as the one by reformist ex-president Mohammad Khatami. Traditional principlists are meanwhile settling scores with the radicals. In the weeks since the election, a new discourse has emerged in which the Jebheh-e Paaydaari is compared to the Kharijites, an early Islamic group who were initially in the camp of Ali – the first Shia imam and the supreme leader's namesake – and fought against his opponents, but later rebelled and eventually assassinated him. As a principlist writer recently said: "We must remember that Ali was martyred not by his opponents, but by the very same people who for years touched their foreheads to prayer stones and stood behind him in prayer." • Ali Reza Eshraghi was a senior editor at several reformist Iranian dailies. He is Iran project manager at the Institute for War and Peace Reporting and a teaching fellow in the Department of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Amir Hossein Mahdavi is a former Iranian journalist and coexistence and conflict research asssistant at Crown Center for Middle East Studies at Brandeis University.
####2013 July 12####'Celebrating Rouhani's victory in Iran makes a mockery of green movement'####The evening the results of the presidential election were announced, I locked myself in – a voluntary house arrest. Moments after Hassan Rouhani's victory was officially endorsed, Tehran had burst into celebration. Hearing the happy clamor of crowds cheering the victory of their presidential candidate placed me, unexpectedly, within a minority. This was the minority who had not voted because they do not believe in gradual reform within a militaristic theocracy, and because they are unwilling to trade the long-term interests of the Iranian people for skin-deep change. It was a drunken sort of celebration (sans alcohol, of course). Those who voted must have needed to get drunk. With a deft sleight of hand, the regime had not only led the populace to vote, with no little hope and hoopla, for a conservative cleric from the military/security apparatus, but it also had them feeling that this time around their vote was not stolen, even that they had made history. What the celebrations clarified was that we had, indeed, been played. The middle class, scared out of its wits by the prospect of another Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, had demonstrated that it would accept whatever alternative the regime would allow. The burgeoning radicalism that, had there been a refusal to participate in the masquerade, could have dug in its roots and grown into a formidable challenge to the regime was forsworn. Ideals of freedom and civic participation gave way to a naïvely optimistic reliance on the right to vote. Even a large number of experienced political activists, brandishing sentimental slogans about democracy, put their weight behind the election. The list of demands the crowd turned into impromptu slogans was so long and thorough that you would think Rouhani held the "key" (the symbol of his campaign) to a storehouse of panacea. One can only pray that it will not turn out to be hemlock instead. The reality is that Rouhani is an excellent choice – for the ruling elite. The current condition of out-and-out economic and political bankruptcy demands a figure like him: someone with no real clout (has anyone paid him a thought in the past 30 years?) but clean enough hands to try and wipe away the memory of Ahmadinejad's corrupt, destructive presidency. Someone to blow hot air into the deflated balloon that carries the regime's banner of "democracy." In the aftermath of Rouhani's election, the people's list of demands only grows: he is to release political prisoners, rein in the brutal Revolutionary Guards, end the atomic danse macabre with the west, convince the US to find another bad guy for its foreign policy, and so on. What is interesting is that the Iranian public could not possibly have forgotten the failure of reformist president Mohammad Khatami – with his much stronger mandate – to achieve very similar goals. The Khatami experiment now seems not so much like a bright spot in the past, but rather a short-lived flare in the dark. Four years ago, the street clashes that followed the presidential election began with a stately gesture: a silent protest, composed of millions, who posed a simple, rhetorical question, "Where is my vote?" As the silence broke and the protests faced mounting violence, the question was turned into a promise to the lost: "Neda [Agha Soltan], Sohrab [Arabi], we will take back your vote!" Now, in the jubilation that followed the announcement of Rouhani's victory, crowds declared the fulfillment of that promise: "Neda, Sohrab, we took back your vote!" Did no one stop to consider the absurdity of mirroring these two events: one in which Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei brazenly disregarded democratic procedure, and another in which he played the magnanimous father, generously allowing the vote to be counted? Does not this second election, with its halo of legitimacy, make a mockery of the green movement? And do we not, as we dance before the cool stares of the same security forces that four years ago would have torn into our crowd, condone that mockery? The celebration was a willful attempt at disregarding such questions. That is inaction. What is the relationship between those who voted for Rouhani and those who did not vote at all? It seems to me that the conversation has degenerated into mutual interrogations. The abstainers want to know why the other side consented to a compromise. The voters demand to know what the other side would have happen: Civil war? Foreign intervention? Total stasis? The questions are pointless. The radical type of resistance in which abstainers such as I believe cannot be demanded. At the same time, people have a right to make compromises. They are not insensate. They know what sacrifices they can and cannot make. Four years ago, Iran's green movement offered some lessons to the world about street politics. Today the lessons come from the streets of Egypt. Blind street politics, the type of politics that is concerned only with immediate personal or group interest, turns the populace into puppets of power. What a statement it would have been if the same crowds who came out to protest against Mohammad Morsi in Egypt came out as well to protest the massacre of his supporters. As for the night the election results were announced in Iran, we should have come out, but not for a jig and a dance, rather for a stone-faced, defiant vigil. For now, the only long-term benefit we Iranians can draw from the new, forthcoming presidency is to take advantage of the relative opening it offers and get down to the work of social organising, of training another generation to do political work. In this way, and today maybe only in this way, we can do honour to what and who has been lost in the fight for freedom.
####2013 June 03####Iranian election: do the Revolutionary Guards have a candidate?####While many people wonder which of the eight candidates for the Iranian presidency will appeal most to voters, the more pressing question is which will be most favoured by the ruling establishment's power brokers, such as the powerful Revolutionary Guards. The Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) has been a dominant player in Iranian politics since the revolution. Its broad-ranging influence transcends that of an exclusively military institution. The organisation does not directly dictate policy or single-handedly choose presidents, but it has enough power within the regime to block major initiatives and promote its own hardline agenda. Former presidential candidates such as Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Mehdi Karroubi directly blamed the IRGC for influencing the results of past elections, and its weight is likely to be felt again this 14 June. The IRGC maintains no official position in election contests. Instead, the organisation offers general guidance to its members, highlighting the personal attributes and political positions of an ideal candidate. In 2005 and 2009, the IRGC and the Basij militia it supervises used this approach to support Maxhmoud Ahmadinejad. This year, the IRGC message has been more muddled. While we will probably gain more clarity as the election draws closer, so far there are two frontrunners for an unofficial IRGC endorsement: Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf and Saeed Jalili. Ghalibaf and Jalili are both stalwarts of the regime, loyalists of the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and IRGC war veterans. These two were also seen as the most popular candidates in a poll by the Guard-controlled Fars news agency that was reported on by other IRGC media outlets this last week. Having commanded both the IRGC air force and the national police, Ghalibaf has a significant security résumé, and he has in effect managed Iran's largest city, as the mayor of Tehran. In his first run for president, in 2005, he attempted to widen his base beyond hardline constituencies by appearing as a modern, tech-savvy candidate. Though this may have broadened his appeal, it also dampened the trust of establishment insiders, including many in the IRGC and Basij, who instead backed the comparatively modest Ahmadinejad. Perhaps fearing a similar result, Ghalibaf has changed tactics this time around. He has made an effort to court the hardliners he alienated in 2005, touting his credentials as a tough, anti-reformist official. In a recent speech to a Basij audience, he took credit for harsh crackdowns on pro-democracy activists in 1999 and 2009. His standing among IRGC commanders might also carry some weight. Murky reports have come out claiming that he has been endorsed by Ghasem Soleimani, the head of the IRGC's covert Quds Force and an influential figure in the regime. Saeed Jalili is a first-time candidate. In contrast to Ghalibaf, there are few questions regarding his motivations. As an ardent supporter of war veterans, and an injured veteran himself, Jalili has endeared himself to the IRGC and its Basiji base. He is seen to have unwavering loyalty to the system and Khamenei. He has earned an endorsement from Ayatollah Mohammad Taghi Mesbah Yazdi, Iran's most prominent extremist senior cleric, and he holds inflexible views on foreign policy and the country's nuclear programme. His campaign slogan could hardly be more blunt: "No compromise. No submission. Only Jalili." In the latest issue of the IRGC weekly, Sobh-e Sadegh, the deputy representative of the Supreme Leader to the organisation, briefly describes the ideal candidate: "The president of the republic should want to truly be the servant of the people and not just [claim he is as as] a popular slogan. He should resist the enemy, not be passive and afraid." The organisation wants to be unchallenged in the areas it cares about, and it wants an unflinching commitment to "resistance". Whether supporting Assad in Syria, not compromising on the nuclear programme, or repressing any pro-democratic dissent, the IRGC wants a president it can work with – and one who, above all else, won't get in its way. Jalili may well be that guy. But don't count Ghalibaf out just yet.
####2013 June 11####Iran elections: 'I don't know if I will vote or not'####As Friday's presidential election nears, there are just a few posters displayed in central Tehran for the presumed leading candidates – the city's mayor, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, and Hassan Rowhani, nuclear negotiator during the administration of the former president Mohammad Khatami. Posters for the hardline favourite Saeed Jalil and the reformist Mohammad Reza Aref, are even rarer sightings. (Aref has just pulled out of the race.) On Monday afternoon in north Tehran's Tajrish Square, supporters of Ghalibaf and Rowhani attempting to hand out flyers to passersby were largely ignored. At one point a group of 10 Rowhani campaigners began to chant "Our vote is for reform!" A woman yelled at them: "Didn't you all learn from the last election? Our votes don't count. Shame on you all! What happened to your intelligence?" Mir Hossein Mousavi, the reformists' standard-bearer in 2009, was able to draw on large numbers of young people for his campaign, but the crowds for Aref and the semi-reformist Rowhani have been substantially smaller. The security presence on the streets has increased during the last week of the campaign, especially at dusk. Half a dozen police vans are present in every major square in Tehran as the sun goes down, and motorcades of security personnel have roared down the city's main streets during recent nights. The sight of them brings back memories of the crackdown on the protests that followed the announcement four years ago that Mousavi had lost to Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a result many Iranians are convinced was fraudulent. In an attempt to ensure that voter turnout will be high this year despite the lack of a compelling contest, the government decided to hold local council elections on the same day for the first time. Government employees and those whose careers rely on state certification are afraid not to vote, as their participation in the elections is recorded (though who they vote for is not known) and is rumoured to be taken into consideration by various authorities for promotions, benefits and other decisions. The economy, which has been buffeted by international sanctions, is the main issue on voters' minds. "If I see that any one of these candidates really has a plan for improving the economy, I will vote," said Sara, a 25-year-old engineer who voted for Mousavi last time. "Though I'm disappointed that there are so many conservatives on this year's ballot, we need someone who can truly fix this economy." "I don't know if I will vote or not," said Meisam, a 30-year-old businessman. His once successful import company went bankrupt in December, which he attributes to the effect of sanctions. "I'm not sure if my vote will matter this year, and I don't support any of these candidates. But who knows … we need things to take a turn in this country. Maybe I will go to the polls. I'm stuck for now."
####2013 March 13####Iranian presidential election: why turnout will be key####With all candidates to be vetted by authorities and an opposition boycott on the cards, one of the most important battles in the upcoming Iranian presidential election is likely to be about turnout. The country's leaders need significant participation in June to secure legitimacy, which was gravely undermined after the previous presidential vote and its bloody aftermath four years ago when Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was re-elected over his reformist challenger, Mir Hossein Mousavi, in a vote that many Iranians believe was manipulated. Mousavi, his wife, the artist Zahra Rahnavard, and the former parliament speaker Mehdi Karroubi, who also campaigned for the presidency as a reformist, have been under house arrest since 2011, a response to large-scale pro-democracy demonstrations. Their supporters have called for a boycott of elections, saying all pro-democracy activists must be released as a precondition for participating. But although voting is not officially compulsory in the Islamic republic, many Iranians feel they will be penalised if they do not. Each voter gets a stamp in their national identification booklet, and there's a widespread belief that having a stamp is important in the selection process for government positions and for obtaining various professional permits. As a result, a substantial number of dissatisfied voters show up only to enter blank or illegible ballots. In parliamentary elections last year so many ballots reportedly had to be discarded that an MP requested an investigation into the matter. Amir, 26, who lives in the Monirieh district in south Tehran, described the pressure he felt to vote. "The people in my generation are looking for secure work. In job interviews at governmental and semi-governmental organisations, or even when seeking a permit to start an artistic or public relations office, they look at your national ID booklet to see if you have voted in the elections. The number of such stamps has a critical bearing on the acceptance of your application file. So, I have to participate in the elections, even if it means depositing a blank ballot," said Amir, who is currently job-hunting after years of studying graphic design. This year the government is employing a new strategy to boost participation. For the first time, the presidential contest will be held at the same time as municipal and rural council elections, which prompt intense campaign activity in many areas. Behrang, a political science student with experience in electoral campaign work, said: "Combining the two elections is a public relations escape route from the lack-of-confidence crisis, because there is strong competition to capture rural and small city council seats. Hence, when someone goes to vote for a council member he supports, it is very likely that he will take part in the presidential balloting at the same time." Then there are the economic inducements. Since December 2011, when subsidies on many household goods and energy were eliminated or reduced, the government has made direct payments to Iranian families to partly offset the inflationary effects. "By making payments in the months close to the elections, and perhaps even boosting the amounts, the government can appease the rural population and entice them to appear at the ballot boxes," Behrang said. Iranians are feeling the effects of economic sanctions, and financial worries are affecting how Iranians view the upcoming election. Mohammad, 45, is a semi-skilled labourer at a ceramic tile factory. He has two children, eight and 13 years old. "I sold my two-bedroom home to move to a better district so that I could sign up my kids at better schools," he said. "The way the prices went up, not only could I not buy a new place, I ended up renting a basement unit in a worse district." He has also had to sell his car, and his wife has started working in a clothing store. "I am worried that the factory will close and I will be left unemployed." Scores of Iranian manufacturing operations have shut down in the past year. Asked whether he would vote, Mohammad said: "Officials get government-provided housing, they have no phone, water, or electricity bills, they get high salaries with nice benefits. They are not worried about losing their jobs. In short, they have no sense of our problems. Then they want to drag us out to the polling boxes to vote. All their concerns are politics. It would be nice if they could be concerned about us a bit too." Dissatisfaction with the leadership is not limited to the working class. Javid, who holds a degree in chemical engineering, is the project director for a petrochemical contractor in Oslovieh, Iran's largest onshore petroleum field. In an interview conducted online, he said: "Three years ago we had over 3,000 employees, but today only 600 have a job. The rest were 'right-sized', laid off. "A month ago, my spouse was one of those laid off. So we have applied for a US student visa for her so that we can get away from Iran for a few years. The current conditions are scary and everyone is trapped in a vague sense of anticipation." His wife, Nasrin, added: "Many of my laid-off co-workers and I see the government, because of its mismanagement of the economy, as the main culprit. Last time we voted to bring in a new government, change the situation and reform things, but the conditions became even worse … I won't repeat the same experience by voting [this time]." But some Iranians say they are looking forward to voting. Ehsan, 30, has recently married. By his account, he has been a member of the Basij militia since adolescence. His father, now retired, served in the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. According to Ehsan, who works as a driver with a transportation company: "The critical conditions are due to the breakdown in the global economy. All countries of the world are in economic crisis; it is not this government's fault."
####2013 May 01####Who's afraid of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad?####As the countdown begins for elections that will usher in Iran's first new president in eight years, all eyes are still on Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the unpredictable and mercurial man who looks unlikely to go quietly. Shortly after the 14 June poll, he will have to relinquish his office in Tehran's Pastor street and hand over the keys to his successor. Given the tight timetable for Iranian elections, it is almost impossible to guess who that person will be. With just six weeks to go, registrations for presidential candidates are only due next week. A number of hopefuls have already announced plans to run but their candidacies will not be valid until the powerful Guardian Council vets their competence and loyalty to the Islamic republic. In 2009, out of 476 registered nominees, only four candidates were allowed to stand – two of them, Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi, are under house arrest for refusing to accept the results and for alleging fraud. The final list of this year's candidates is expected on 23 May and a three-week campaign period will follow. Despite this, Ahmadinejad has embarked on an extensive schedule of provincial visits in what is suspected to be part of an election strategy designed to promote his favoured candidate. On Wednesday, he was visiting Rasht, the capital of north-western Gilan province, situated on the coast of the Caspian Sea. At the weekend, he went to Tabriz in the East Azerbaijan province . Previously, he visited a number of other provinces, such as Isfahan, Khuzestan and Semnan. He is not alone; other nominees are following his footsteps. Under Iranian law, the president cannot run for a third term but all the signs indicate that the 57-year-old Ahmadinejad, a relatively young politician in the Iranian hierarchy, has no plans for retirement. On the contrary, he is accused of planning a Putin/Medvedev-style reshuffle by grooming his chief of staff and close confidant, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei. In the eyes of loyalists to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, today's Ahmadinejad bears no resemblance to the young revolutionary and later Tehran mayor who rose to become president in 2005. Back then, he quickly became the ayatollah's protege, enjoying an unprecedented influence over Iranian politics. Now, Ahmadinejad is at odds with his erstwhile patrons in the Revolutionary Guards and widely seen as a lame duck. Ahmadinejad has fallen foul of the loyalists because of his unwavering support for Mashaei, who is accused of leading a deviant current in the inner circle of the president, loathed for their advocacy of greater cultural openness and nationalism. Many are already counting down Ahmadinejad's dying days in office, believing they are his final days in power. Others think he still has a chance and, in case Mashaei is disqualified from running, is issuing challenges to the establishment by threatening to go out all guns blazing and pulling down the edifice of the political system that championed him. But who is afraid of Ahmadinejad? In February, the president played a secretly filmed tape in the Iranian parliament - to the astonishment of millions of Iranians listening on national radio - that revealed the speaker's brother was allegedly trading on his sibling's influence for financial gain. Many fear that the president's team have many more secret tapes and videos that could pose serious challenges to the Islamic republic; others say that is a bluff. "They have installed hidden cameras, listening devices in order to collect information and release them in public," Mohammed Ali Montazeri, a judicial official, warned this week. Baztab, a conservative news website critical of the government, said in a report that Ahmadinejad was rumoured to possess a tape that shows he received a phone call from the authorities right after the 2009 elections telling him they planned to announce that he had won millions more votes than the real tally. This was denied by the president's office this week and Baztab was taken offline on Wednesday. "There are things to say..." Ahmadinejad said on a recent visit to the holy city of Qom, promising to reveal them at a future date. The president's menacing language has infuriated his rivals and, as elections approach, everyone is watching for any unexpected movements that may embarrass the supreme leader.
####2013 May 07####Iran's electoral elegance: the style evolution of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad####When Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ran for Iran's presidential office in 2005, his distinctive white kapshan (jacket) became a trademark. His supporters said it was a sign that the then mayor of Tehran was truly a man of the people; his critics complained he could be damaging the country's image with bad fashion. In his first years as president, Ahmadinejad continued to sport his familiar attire despite complaints. However, as his position of power became more entrenched, his trademark kapshan became redundant as polyester windbreakers gave way to often oversized tailored suits. The change did not go unnoticed. Mostafa Reza-Hosseini Ghotbabadi, a former MP, said: "Ahmadinejad's characteristics have changed, his jackets are replaced with formal suits." With a hole under its left arm, the original white jacket was auctioned off two years ago and sold for the equivalent of £34,000. As Iran braces itself for a six-week election frenzy, a nostalgic Ahmadinejad has once again returned to the kapshan look. Although the 57-year-old cannot run for a third term, he has embarked on an extensive schedule of provincial visits, reportedly as part of a plan to groom his favoured candidate and chief of staff, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, to be his successor. Meanwhile in Tehran, he appears to be sticking with his suits. At the closing ceremony of the world conference of Ulama and Islamic awakening last week, Ahmadinejad was wearing an Italian-style dark blue pinstripe suit. "At least his suits are getting better," tweeted Hooman Majd, the author of The Ayatollah Begs to Differ: The Paradox of Modern Iran; posting Ahmadinejad's picture on the social networking website. Another user tweeted: "New stylist?"
####2013 May 08####Iranian elections: economy still centre stage as candidates rehash old themes####In 2005 many in Iran's political class scoffed at reformist candidate Mehdi Karroubi for suggesting he would give every adult 500,000 rials a month (then around $57) from the country's energy sales if he was elected president. But in winning 17.2% of votes in the first round – not far behind Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani on 21% and the eventual winner Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on 19.5% – Karroubi finished comfortably ahead of the man considered the main reformist candidate, Mostafa Moein, on 13.8%, who fought the election on the traditional reformist themes of social and political freedoms. Ahmadinejad won a 61.7% majority in the second round runoff against Rafsanjani. Karroubi was not the only candidate to use redistributive rhetoric in the 2005 campaign. In defeating Rafsanjani in the runoff, Ahmadinejad said he would "put the oil money on the sofreh" – the square cloth placed on the floor on which poorer Iranians set their meals. Again in 2009, the economy was the major issue; and although Karroubi polled badly in a disputed election, Mir Hossein Mousavi, another reformist candidate, fought a skilful campaign that blended day-to-day issues with the traditional reformist call for civil and political rights. Now, the economy is still at the centre of election debate, with a large field of would-be candidates criticising the economic management of Ahmadinejad, who is ineligible under the constitution for a third consecutive term. At the core of economic policy is the tension between resources going into short-term consumption or into the investment required for long-term growth. Despite having the world's second-largest reserves of both gas and oil, Iran has been less than successful in using energy revenue to develop other sectors. The former government of Mohammad Khatami ringfenced windfall oil revenue in 2000 in the Oil Stabilization Fund, in order to assist private sector investment, but political pressures led both parliament and government to raid the fund even before Ahmadinejad replaced Khatami in 2005 and adopted a populist course, including replacing state subsidies of everyday items – like petrol and bread – with cash payouts. Ahmadinejad has continued this course even in the last year as tightening western sanctions have halved Iran's oil sales, with the government admitting that in the year ending in March state revenue was at $77bn — well below the budget projection of $117bn. With the private sector squeezed by sanctions and the state short of development resources, the economy is well short of the 8% growth target set by the fifth five-year development plan, which guides government policies from 2010 to 2015. The International Monetary Fund projects the economy will shrink by 1.3% in 2013. With unemployment at 13% and inflation at 32%, many voters have lost confidence in Ahmadinejad's approach. Farideh Farhi of the university of Hawaii argues his populist measures may still appeal in rural areas but less so in the cities and towns where around two-thirds of Iranians live. "Past promises have made people sceptical," she says. "And they also have demands that relate to better delivery of government services." This could lead to candidates offering very similar, almost technocratic agendas. "Yes the election may turn out to be about hiring a competent CEO," says Farhi, "perhaps with a tinge of hope that he will be better able to reduce the tensions with the US." But an Iranian business journalist and businessman said there could be some mileage left for populist policies that play to the poor. "The bottom half and top half disagree on some things and agree on others. "Those on low and let's say low-middle incomes would like more government involvement in the economy, with more handouts, and they are against privatisation. Those on higher and high-middle incomes don't approve of handouts, and would like to see less government involvement, although they would like bank loans and low lending rates. "Everyone agrees, however, on two things: that there is corruption throughout the economy and that privatisation as practiced so far is a proxy for corruption and transferring ownership to favoured groups." Relations with the west are bound to be some kind of election issue, if only because sanctions have now had such an effect on the economy. But again, with candidates keen to stay within the guidelines laid out by Ayatollah Ali Khamenei of maintaining Iran's "rights" to nuclear technology, this may boil down to competing claims to be skilful in diplomatic manoeuvring rather than advancing competing agendas. One exception to such consensus could be Rahim Esfandiar Mashaei, Ahmadinejad's leading aide and chosen successor, but he may not pass vetting by the Guardian Council, the state watchdog that assesses the "suitability" of candidates. If he runs, Mashaei will presumably extend Ahmadinejad's themes of redistributing wealth and tackling corruption. A further exception could be Kamran Baghari Lankarani, Ahmadinejad's former health minister, who is running with the backing of the Jebhe-ye Paydari (the Resistance Front), a grouping that wants to continue the purer ideals of the revolution and is sceptical of any dealings with the US. "The Paydari Front may make a case for continued pursuit of revolutionary ideals and economic justice, rejecting the so-called western-oriented technocratic solutions to Iran's problems," says Farhi. "But the more common slogans for platforms so far such as progress, wisdom, competence suggest that most candidates will be running against Ahmadinejad's erratic decision-making style and what is now openly identified as empty populist promises."
####2013 May 09####Iran in a flutter over Ghalibaf and yellow as a campaign colour####Supporters of Tehran's mayor, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, wore yellow wristbands and carried yellow banners as they welcomed their favourite potential nominee to their city on Wednesday. Ghalibaf has not yet officially entered the presidential race but is widely expected to register before official deadline on Saturday. His supporters' yellow wristbands and banner triggered speculation that he might have already chosen his campaign's colour in a move reminiscent of the previous vote in 2009 when the opposition leader Mir-Hossein Mousavi created a massive momentum by going green. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf. Photograph: Hasan Sarbakhshian/AP Ghalibaf, a so-called conservative "principlist", has formed a coalition with two others with similar political allegiances, Ali Akbar Velayati, a senior adviser to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and Gholam-Ali Haddadadel, a former parliamentary speaker. This year's elections is likely to become a battlefield between principlists, reformists, independents and the associates of the outgoing president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. On Wednesday, Ghalibaf was speaking at a gathering in the city of Karaj, in Alborz province, where yellow-decked supporters greeted him carrying yellow placards. One placard said: "I vote for you only because of my leader [Khamenei]." Local websites in Karaj, including Alborznews, took the campaign colour angle. Iranian news agencies such as Mehr or Isna also published photo galleries of the event which prompted reactions online. But Qomefarda, a local news website, quoted the event's organisers as saying yellow was merely the colour of Ansar-e-Hezbollah, an Islamic group famous for its staunch supporter for Khamenei, and had nothing to do with the elections. It is still not clear if only one nominee from Ghalibaf's conservative coalition, known as 2+1, would register or whether the three would do and later two would withdraw from the race in favour of one. Since Tuesday when candidates began to register for 14 June vote, only a handful serious contenders have officially announced candidacy. The big players are yet to sign up. In Iran, eyes are on the former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Ahmadinejad's close ally, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei. The powerful Guardian council vets all candidates and the majority of nominees are often disqualify for reasons of competency or for not shown enough loyalty to the Islamic republic. Rafsanjani who is currently the head of the country's expediency council – which mediates between the parliament and the Guardian council – used to enjoy a great deal of influence over Iranian politics in the past but his position has been badly weakened in the last decade both because of the allegations of corruption in his family and by confronting Khamenei. Earlier this week, video footage emerged showing Ghalibaf voicing an unprecedented and strong criticism of Rafsanjani, accusing him of playing to the enemy by not putting aside his differences with Khamenei.
####2013 May 29####Iran election: why Tehran mayor's popularity may harm his chances####Managing the quotidian chaos of a capital with a larger population than some European countries requires Olympian ego and zeal, and Mohammed Bagher Ghalibaf, 52, possesses ample doses of both. In his eight years as the mayor of Tehran, the committed moderniser has remoulded the city of 10 million according to his own principles of beauty and utility. He has conjured entire neighbourhoods out of the ground, and dug into private coffers to build highways, bridges and metro tunnels. Along the way, he has subjugated unwieldy terrains, unruly students, intricate bureaucracies – even the forces of nature. Despite fresh concerns regarding his human rights record, his feats have earned him widespread popularity, but the complex dynamics of Iran's power structure make it unclear whether deploying these strengths will make or break his bid for the presidency. As the 14 June vote draws near, Ghalibaf is one of eight candidates to pass through the rigid vetting process of the Guardian Council. Coupled with his impeccable credentials as an Iran-Iraq war veteran and Revolutionary Guard air force commander, the popularity he has garnered by improving Tehran make him a formidable campaign rival for other hardliners handpicked by the supreme leader, Ali Khamenei. Alongside conservatives such as the nuclear negotiator Saeed Jalili and the former foreign minister Ali Velayati, who are seen as Khamenei's favoured candidates, Ghalibaf stands out for his independence and dynamism – characteristics that may in fact harm his chances in the election race. Known for his affinity for smart suits and leather jackets, the media-savvy mayor appeals to conservatives and technocrats who praise him for his political efficiency, but also to a class of urban voters whom he has attracted with an array of flashy public projects. Throughout his pursuit of modernity, Ghalibaf has flouted the aesthetic prescriptions of the theocratic elites. His two mayoral terms have seen sweeping public service reforms and budget transparency. He has also erected new cinemas and cultural centres, planted millions of trees, and blanketed the city with some 1,500 parks. Mohammed Bagher Ghalibaf's TV campaign Some compare Ghalibaf to yet another well-liked Tehran mayor, the ardently reformist Gholamhossein Karbaschi, who spearheaded vast green-space projects and neighbourhood revitalisations. As a close ally of the former president Mohammad Khatami, Karbaschi became involved in a power struggle between the reformists and hardliners that led to his arrest and detention from 1998 to 2000. "Ghalibaf has pursued many popular policies of Karbaschi to build a 'modern urbanity' which structurally contradicts the hardliners' fantasies of an Islamic city," said Asef Bayat, a professor of sociology and Middle East studies at the University of Illinois. To fund his endeavours, Ghalibaf has developed a talent for finding new cash streams. His crowning infrastructural achievements include the two-level expansion of the Sadr expressway and the six-mile (10km) Niyayesh tunnel that connects two of the city's central highways, as well as the against-the-odds expansion of the Tehran metro. Both projects have been realised in co-operation with Chinese companies. Speeding up metro construction, in particular, was a snub to Ghalibaf's longtime rival, the president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Himself a former Tehran mayor, the populist Ahmadinejad had been reluctant to dispense money from government agencies to fund the project. "Ghalibaf remains, ideologically and in terms of his urban policies, somewhere between Karbaschi and Ahmadinejad," said Bayat. "He is someone who has come from an Islamist security-police background and yet wants to avoid the crude, populist Islamism of Ahmadinejad." In an ideological bureaucracy with immense room for development, it may not be acumen as much as a political opportunity he owes to his hardliner credentials that give Ghalibaf his power to undertake Herculean projects. "I don't think it's because of his greatness, it is because those who are better haven't been given the chance to flourish," said a former campaigner. "Among many low-quality managers, he is the one who let some technocrats in. There is too much potential in Iran. If anyone can let it out even a little, it makes a splash." Despite his commitment to civil service, Ghalibaf has a strong military past. Joining Iran's war effort against Iraq at the age of 19, he quickly rose through the ranks to become a general in Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) by the age of 22. Following the war, he studied geopolitics at Tehran University, and in 1998 became commander of the guard's air force. A year later, when a bloody crackdown on protesting students precipitated nationwide demonstrations and forced the national chief of police to resign, the supreme leader appointed Ghalibaf in his stead. It was during his time as police chief that Ghalibaf first unleashed his modernising drive. His reform efforts resulted in an overhaul of the force, expensive automobile and equipment upgrades, as well as the implementation of a nationwide emergency hotline. In times of unrest, Ghalibaf presented himself as a placating force between the protesting masses and the baton-wielding authorities. But recently leaked recordings suggest that Ghalibaf's hardline leanings run deeper and darker than he has publicly admitted. On 16 May, human rights watchers sounded alarm bells following the emergence of a two-hour recording in which Ghalibaf addresses an obstinate group of the Basij, the IRGC's paramilitary wing. The tape, which appears to have been recorded in recent months, shows Ghalibaf taking credit for a series of violent acts of repression, including a passage in which he describes himself "beating [protesters] with wooden sticks" on the back of a motorbike during the 1999 events. Elsewhere in the recording, he boasts of ordering police to fire gunshots at protesters during on-campus student demonstrations in 2003. He also commends himself for an effective response to the unrest following the disputed 2009 presidential election, which saw widespread killings and abuse of demonstrators. Throughout his effort to ingratiate himself with the young Basijs, Ghalibaf refers to his career-long commitment to stomping out opposition while defending some of his more moderate decisions. He explains the logistical pragmatism of keeping the metro open during demonstrations, and highlights the impracticality of removing trash cans to prevent their incineration by protesters, pointing out they make a more acceptable target than automobiles. This moderating streak is evident throughout Ghalibaf's political efforts. In his election campaign, he bills himself as a deft manager who can restore order to the fragmented ruling elite, realign the course of international negotiations regarding Iran's nuclear capabilities, and – most pertinently for voters – rebuild the shattered economy. Despite public outrage at the leaked recordings, the popular mayor has the advertising tools to win over middle-class voters who lack a viable reformist alternative. "One of the most powerful media organisations in Iran, the [daily newspaper] Hamshahri, is under his supervision," said Arash Ghafouri, a campaign strategist. "If [Ghalibaf] wants to use the youth to be a part of his election campaign and give energy to it, he has enough money to organise them. And because of his personality, he is the only man in the ruling groups the middle class might trust." In an election atmosphere where all frontrunners are hardline conservatives close to Khamenei, Ghalibaf's distinct profile as an open-minded modernist may attract reform-minded voters who see him as the only viable option – or, as one Tehran voter put it – a welcome pair of "old shoes in a barren desert". Though the reliability of Iranian pre-election polls is disputable, current surveys indicate Ghalibaf is in the lead. But the paradoxical nature of Iranian politics means this growing popularity may in fact cost him his chance at the presidency. Given his tribulations with the maverick Ahmadinejad, Khamenei is likely to opt for a candidate who promises to be tractable and obedient. Ghalibaf may thus be pressured to cede his presidential bid for the benefit of the more favoured hardliners Jalili or Velayati. "Unfortunately, Iran's supreme leader doesn't like strong, independent men … Even in this convoluted political environment, Khamenei might support candidates he thinks follow his wants better than Ghalibaf," said Ghafouri. However, he added that Ghalibaf may end up playing an auxiliary role in a position such as the vice-presidency. For now, Ghalibaf continues to walk the tightrope between the ultra-conservative ruling powers and his target base of middle-class voters. Not one to shirk his mayoral responsibilities, he is also pursuing epic public works that tell of the scale of his political ambitions. To attract tourism and lower Tehran's soaring levels of toxic air, Ghalibaf is building a 220-hectare artificial lake on the outskirts of a city already struggling with water supply. The project, bemoaned by environmentalists, will fill a forested area beneath the Alborz mountain range with around 10m cubic metres of water diverted from a nearby river. As the first stage of the project inundates the arid landscape, Ghalibaf is pouring his energies into a presidential campaign many say will prove unsuccessful. But given the mayor's resilience, its effects are likely to leave a profound imprint on the Iranian political scene no matter what the outcome.
####2013 September 06####Iran: Rafsanjani signals wavering in long-standing support for Syria####Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, 79, has been written off more than most. But the former president and head of the expediency council remains an astute operator, and my guess is that he has chosen his ground carefully in calling for a reappraisal of Iran's unblinking support for the regime of Bashar al-Assad. In saying Assad's forces were responsible for using chemicals weapons in Damascus in an attack on 21 August, Rafsanjani has surely judged this a good issue for the first serious clash between pragmatists and more "hardline" forces since Hassan Rouhani, a Rafsanjani ally, took over as president a month ago. While a clash was inevitable sooner or later - and while Rouhani still has the aura of June's overwhelming election victory - it has arrived quickly, and reflects how delicate a time it is in the Middle East as the United States ponders its first direct military involvement in the Syrian war. The public argument within Iran's political class reflects a wider disagreement in Tehran over regional policy and the prospect of talks with Washington about the nuclear programme. There are many in Tehran who would love to undermine Rouhani's calls for dialogue as means of reaching a compromise over the nuclear programme and reducing region-wide tensions between Shia and Sunni Muslims being brought to boiling point by violent chaos in Syria. Whatever Iran's longstanding alliance with Assad and whatever the imperatives of maintaining logistical support to Hezbollah, Iran has a strong public policy of opposition to chemical weapons. The deaths of 20,000 Iranian soldiers and the continuing suffering of around 100,000 Iranians from the use of chemicals by Iraq during the 1980-88 war are well known in the country. They are often highlighted on state television. And while Iran's link to Assad remains strategic, the conflict is clearly worsening relations with Sunni Arab states. Shia are deeply aware – it is intrinsic to the origins of the faith – of their minority status. Takiyya, the doctrine that holds that beliefs can be disguised in certain circumstances in order to protect the faithful from danger, came about because the Shia cannot win any all-out conflict. The calculation of the pragmatists is surely that the longer the Syria war lasts, the greater the prospect that the fall of Assad. This would at the very least leave Tehran facing a new regime in Damascus, from which it and Hezbollah are deeply alienated, or perhaps a mess with little of a regime to speak of. Violence in the region has proved deeply unpredictable. Think of Russia's 1979-89 war in Afghanistan, of the 2003 invasion of Iraq, of 9/11, of Hezbollah's action in Beirut in 2008. Syria could produce even greater genies that cannot be replaced in any bottle. In Beirut, a friend told me of "whole Syrian families glad to find a branch of a tree on the airport road where they can shelter". Many Iraqi Christians who fled to Syria to escape Sunni sectarian "cleansing" have returned to face uncertainties in their homeland, and some reports say 150,000 Syrian Christians fleeing Sunni violence are under effective siege in a "valley of Christians" in the west. These are the lucky ones. Rafsanjani's speech reflects a view that Iran should work for a diplomatic compromise. He broke from earlier claims from officials including Mohammad Javad Zarif, the foreign minister, and Abbas Araghchi, then foreign ministry spokesman, that rebels and not the Assad regime had used the chemicals. Rafsanjani's speech also acknowledged the weaknesses of Iran's position – especially in being unable to sell, or to receive payments for, oil. This was a brave move, as it carries that risk that some in Washington will argue once again that with Iran "weakening", confrontation and force can produce a new dawn for pax Americana in the region. It is hard not to think Rafsanjani is acting as a stalking horse for the president. But even Rouhani, in condemning the use of chemical weapons and calling for international action, did not attribute culpability to either side. And in changing tack after initial comments, Zarif argued that with "no proof" that the Syrian government was responsible, culpability should be established internationally before any action taken. Rafsanjani has led from the front. One western diplomat told me back in February that the outlines of a Syrian agreement, tied in to a wider regional settlement, were apparent, even though the political difficulties in achieving them were acute. "Everybody's had to go with the Shia-majority dominance of Iraq, and in Syria, we are prepared to accept similar logic," he said. And if this were to be the outcome, he continued, it would be better achieved round a table than through unpredictable violence. Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and Iran, he argued, needed to front a deal, backed by the US and Russia, that would accept majority Sunni rule in Syria with minority rights, and Shia-rule in Iraq with minority rights. But even then, the diplomat was not optimistic. "The stars are not aligned to allow that to happen," he said. The effects of US strikes on possibilities for diplomacy are unknown, and yet the diplomatic doors remain slightly ajar. There was considerable speculation in Tehran at the end of August that a visit by Qaboos bin Said Al Said, the leader of Oman, was intended to help start low-profile talks between Iran and the US. The daily Khorasan reported the Sultan had brought a proposal for Iran to be readmitted to the international money-transfer system Swift if it reduced uranium enrichment. And this came after the visit of Jeffrey Feltman, the UN under-secretary general and former senior US diplomat and ex-Lebanon ambassador, ostensibly to discuss the UN interest in Syria, Egypt and Lebanon. The "leaking" of details of the Qaboos visit – possibly by conservative elements opposed to talks with the US – may have reflected the disagreements within Iranian politics. The visit, or indeed the leak itself, may have prompted Rafsanjani's intervention over chemical weapons. "One cannot be sure of anything," an analyst in Tehran said. "Once the first Tomahawk missile takes flight, everybody is in the dark as to what happens next. Curiously in all this the collective political establishment of the West too, seems to be viewing the coming crisis like a deer caught in the headlights. We will have to wait and see what the next two weeks or so will bring: war or the greatest political stepping back from the brink of war the world will have ever seen the Americans take." The pragmatists in Tehran may be judging that Syria is taking the region in a direction where pragmatism will be submerged – "burned" would be a better word – by militarists and those on all sides who blame others for everything. If so, then Rafsanjani is telling pragmatists in Washington and Europe and the Sunni Arab establishment that there are those in Iran who want to talk. Rouhani and Rafsanjani await a response.
