####2010 December 10####Medvedev plans to run for second term - presidential aide########Russia’s presidential aide Arkady Dvorkovich believes that President Dmitry Medvedev wants to run for a second term in the 2012. "I think it will be clear to anyone who looks carefully at what Dmitry Medvedev is doing, that he wants to stay on for a second term," Arkady Dvorkovich told  BBC reporters.Russia’s presidential aide Arkady Dvorkovich believes that President Dmitry Medvedev wants to run for a second term in the 2012. "I think it will be clear to anyone who looks carefully at what Dmitry Medvedev is doing, that he wants to stay on for a second term," Arkady Dvorkovich told  BBC reporters. Still, the decision is not final, Dvorkovich said, as Medvedev will discuss with PM Vladimir Putin who will run in the elections.  Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 March 11####Youth activists urge election turnout########Some three thousand activists from the age group that enters the electorate in 2012 have held a Moscow rally with calls for a massive turnout for this country’s next presidential elections in a year from now. They represent the first generation of voters born after the collapse of the Soviet Union.Some three thousand activists from the age group that enters the electorate in 2012 have held a Moscow rally with calls for a massive turnout for this country’s next presidential elections in a year from now. They represent the first generation of voters born after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 April 13####Medvedev mulls 2012 bid########The leaders of this country’s ruling United Russia party said on Tuesday that Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and President Dmitry Medvedev will decide between themselves who of them is going to run for the presidency in 2012.The leaders of this country’s ruling United Russia party said on Tuesday that Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and President Dmitry Medvedev will decide between themselves who of them is going to run for the presidency in 2012.   In his interview with Chinese television on Tuesday, Dmitry Medvedev did not rule out he might pitch his candidacy for the country’s top job. To this he added that the choice between him and Vladimir Putin should depend on the people’s attitude and the social situation in the country. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Medvedev's interview to China Central Television, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 April 16####2012 elections: Medvedev, Putin, or both?########Russian news media are teeming with speculation as to who will be the country’s next president. Both the press and the public have been intrigued by statements to this effect made by the president and prime minister this week. But despite so much talk, the issue remains unresolved.Russian news media are teeming with speculation as to who will be the country’s next president. Both the press and the public have been intrigued by statements to this effect made by the president and prime minister this week. But despite so much talk, the issue remains unresolved. President Medvedev and Prime Minister Putin have been asked about the 2012 election campaign before. As election time draws nearer, journalists and ordinary residents alike are eager to know whether Medvedev, Putin, or both will run for presidency. Speaking to Chinese reporters before the BRICS summit, President Medvedev did not rule out his participation in the presidential race but said that a final decision was still to be made and would be announced in the near future. Medvedev’s statement that he and Putin see Russia’s further development differently but pursue the same agenda – the country’s prosperity, was interpreted by some as differences, by others as “normal business”. In his turn, Prime Minister Putin allowed for his participation in the 2012 elections but warned that with a whole one year ahead of them media frenzy in connection with them might disrupt the normal work of the government. The absence of a clear answer gives rise to turbulent disputes in the press. President of the Effective Policy Foundation Gleb Pavlovsky is sure that only one from the Medvedev-Putin tandem will run for president: "Either Medvedev or Putin will take part in the election race, so a choice of candidate within the party of power won’t be a problem. Even though there is no consensus to this effect in the press, only one will run, as required by the current concept. If the two fail to come to agreement, which is highly unlikely, the situation will follow quite a different scenario. A third candidate may come onto the scene. But this would undermine the unity of the ruling tandem." With just five months before registration of candidates is due to start, it’s unclear whether a full-blown election campaign is under way in Russia. It looks like both the president and prime minister are engaged in their usual public activities at the moment. Should both choose to run for president, their chances may turn out to be equal. This adds yet more piquancy to the election intrigue. Russia’s political analyst and public figure Irina Khakamada comments: "There can be three options. First, Medvedev runs for president by agreement with Putin, Putin remains prime minister to keep the main financial flows under control.  Second, the two agree that Putin will run, so Medvedev gets a good position in the government. Third, both go to the polls to attract more public interest and to demonstrate that there is democracy in Russia." As Russia’s ruling elite insists that the tandem should put an end to the uncertainty, most observers point out that there can be no ready-made solution as Medvedev’s and Putin’s strategies for Russia are similar, just as their job approval ratings.   Chupina Maria Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Medvedev-Putin tandem, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 April 18####Zuganov – Communist candidate in presidential election########Leader of Russian Communists, Gennady Zuganov will take part in the presidential election of 2012. Having made his announcement on Russia’s central television Zuganov now hopes to secure support from his party members that have to officially nominate him as their candidate in the next presidential election.Leader of Russian Communists, Gennady Zuganov will take part in the presidential election of 2012. Having made his announcement on Russia’s central television Zuganov now hopes to secure support from his party members that have to officially nominate him as their candidate in the next presidential election. Russia, Communist Party, Russian presidential election 2012, Gennady Zuganov, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 May 07####Putin’s Popular Front to contest presidency########We have a flurry of opinions concerning the proposal by Prime Minister Putin, at a conference of his United Russia party in Volgograd on Friday, to put together a united popular front for contesting elections.We have a flurry of opinions concerning the proposal by Prime Minister Putin, at a conference of his United Russia party in Volgograd on Friday, to put together a united popular front for contesting elections. The leading Russian analyst Professor Yevgeni Minchenko told the media Saturday that the proposed Front is unlikely to reshape the political landscape, but will probably field a candidate for President. The Russians will form a new legislature next December and pick their next President next March.   Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 May 18####Not long till presidential bid decision – Medvedev########Russian President Dmitry Medvedev says that there is not long to go before he announces whether he will or will not run for president again. “The election genre has its own laws and I will adhere to those laws.Russian President Dmitry Medvedev says that there is not long to go before he announces whether he will or will not run for president again. “The election genre has its own laws and I will adhere to those laws. If I decide to make this announcement, I will do so. As I recently said to our Chinese colleagues, the wait isn’t long now, this is a call that will be made fairly shortly,” – Medvedev said. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Medvedev's news conference, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 May 18####Medvedev not saying goodbye to presidency yet########Dmitry Medvedev says people have been too quick to interpret his words about wanting to teach and share his experience as the head of state post-presidency as preparedness to leave the president’s chair. “I have no doubt that sooner or later I will stop being president.Dmitry Medvedev says people have been too quick to interpret his words about wanting to teach and share his experience as the head of state post-presidency as preparedness to leave the president’s chair. “I have no doubt that sooner or later I will stop being president. And in this case, I have never been uncomfortable with the idea of sharing my experience of working as the president, of working in government. I think this is useful, but I’ll immediately say that to think that I’ve waved goodbye to everyone with that… is incorrect,” – the president said at Wednesday’s press conference. At the same time, he confirmed that he intends to take up teaching in the future. “I will definitely teach, because I like it – it is interesting, it is useful and it is good work,” – he said. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Medvedev's news conference, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 May 19####Medvedev says he may stay on as President after 2012########President Dmitry Medvedev said on Thursday that he does not exclude that he may stay on as the Russian leader after the 2012 elections. Speaking to reporters following his talks with Austrian counterpart Heinz Fischer in Moscow on Thursday, Medvedev said that he touched on the topic during yesterday’s news conference in Skolkovo.President Dmitry Medvedev said on Thursday that he does not exclude that he may stay on as the Russian leader after the 2012 elections. Speaking to reporters following his talks with Austrian counterpart Heinz Fischer in Moscow on Thursday, Medvedev said that he touched on the topic during yesterday’s news conference in Skolkovo. Asked on Wednesday whether he would run for a second term, Medvedev said that “politics have their own means and ways” and that he would announce a possible decision in “an other format.” Fischer, for his part, said on Thursday that would be glad to welcome Medvedev in Austria irrespective of the results of the 2012 elections. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 June 20####Medvedev urges more political competition in Russia########In an interview with the Financial Times newspaper published on Monday, President Dmitry Medvedev urged mores steps to boost political competition in Russia, which he said would added significantly to the country’s economic development.In an interview with the Financial Times newspaper published on Monday, President Dmitry Medvedev urged mores steps to boost political competition in Russia, which he said would added significantly to the country’s economic development. He voiced regret over the fact that no right-wing political parties are now in place in the State Duma, adding that parties, which gain at least 5 percent of the vote should  gain representation in Russia’s Lower House. Medvedev again kept mum on whether he is going to run in the 2012 presidential elections in Russia, which experts say may see a possible political competition between Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin – a scenario that was rejected by the Russian leader during Monday’s interview.         Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Medvedev's interview to The Financial Times, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 June 20####Medvedev talks about 2012 elections########President Medvedev spoke about the 2012 presidential elections in an interview with The Financial Times on the last day of the St.Petersburg Economic Forum.President Medvedev spoke about the 2012 presidential elections in an interview with The Financial Times on the last day of the St.Petersburg Economic Forum. Asked about whether he would run for president next year and if there was a rift in the Medvedev-Putin tandem, Dmitry Medvedev said that he would make statements to this effect when the moment was right for that. He hinted, however, that his plan was to bring all his policies for reforming Russia to a close. The Voice of Russia’s Roman Mamonov reports. President Medvedev has been approached with the election question several times over the past six months. As before, he dodged a direct answer this time too, saying that he is fully aware of the reason behind the concerns: "The president, the government and parliament should do their utmost not to let these kinds of uncertainties influence the investment climate." President Medvedev acknowledged differences in his tandem with Vladimir Putin. He said, however, that different approaches towards certain issues were nothing unusual in politics. As regards the prospect of both the president and prime minister taking part in the election race, the president sees it as unlikely: "This is unlikely because Vladimir Putin (both a colleague and an old friend) and I represent to a great extent the same political force, he said. In this sense, competition between us could be detrimental to the goals and objectives we have been pursuing over the past few years. It would not be the best scenario for our country and for the current situation.' President Medvedev did not rule out running for a second term, saying that it’s only natural for a president to seek re-election in order to see his projects through. Medvedev has a lot of projects in mind and they need years to be put into effect: "If I work as president for the second time, which our Constitution allows, I will certainly attempt to implement my stated goals – to modernize our economy and our society, including its political system, the president said. I am not sure that I’ll succeed, but I will do my best. I want to see Russia a flourishing, wealthy nation within 10 years. I can’t promise that Russia will achieve everything by then but I’d like to see its living standards considerably higher than now. Also, Russia should become a strong, sovereign country, capable of standing up for itself on the international scene and as a permanent member of the Security Council. Russia should become a leader in every sense of the word." President Medvedev talked of the disadvantages of his job as president. He lamented that he could no longer switch off his mobile phone to play sports because his job required him to be on alert all the time and there was no escaping that. Mikhail Romanov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Medvedev's interview to The Financial Times, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 June 23####3,000 reporters to cover Duma elections########More than 3,000 journalists will be accredited to cover the Duma elections scheduled for next December, the head of Russia’s Election Committee Vladimir Churov stated on Thursday. They will be joined by foreign observers. The results will be available via a special info center, text messages and hot lines.More than 3,000 journalists will be accredited to cover the Duma elections scheduled for next December, the head of Russia’s Election Committee Vladimir Churov stated on Thursday. They will be joined by foreign observers. The results will be available via a special info center, text messages and hot lines. Russia, World, journalist, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 June 25####2012 elections: who's next?########The main political intrigue of the past week revolved around President Medvedev’s statements concerning the 2012 elections. Dmitry Medvedev spoke on this at the St.Petersburg Economic Forum in the middle of the week. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin also dropped hints to this effect during his visit to France.The main political intrigue of the past week revolved around President Medvedev’s statements concerning the 2012 elections. Dmitry Medvedev spoke on this at the St.Petersburg Economic Forum in the middle of the week. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin also dropped hints to this effect during his visit to France. Whether the tandem will both vie for presidency or whether only one will run should become clear in the near future. President Medvedev’s statements concerning his election plans were published by The Financial Times. He views his running against Vladimir Putin as unlikely. "This is unlikely because Vladimir Putin (both a colleague and an old friend) and I represent to a great extent the same political force, he said. In this sense, competition between us could be detrimental to the goals and objectives we have been pursuing over the past few years. It would not be the best scenario for our country and for the current situation." However, President Medvedev did not rule out running for a second term. His plans for Russia will require years of hard work. "If I work as president for the second time, which our Constitution allows, I will certainly attempt to implement my stated goals – to modernize our economy and our society, including its political system, the president said. I am not sure that I’ll succeed, but I will do my best. I want to see Russia a flourishing, wealthy nation within 10 years." Prime Minister Vladimir Putin expressed his opinion on the election issue the next day. Though reluctant to dwell on the issue, the prime minister spoke with a composure typical of him to satisfy the reporters. "Parliamentary elections in Russia will take place at the beginning of December. Presidential elections will be held next March. Both will be held in strict compliance with the existing legislation and the Constitution of the Russian Federation. The main character here is not a certain candidate but the Russian people. It is the people that will decide who is going to be the president and who is going to represent Russia in parliament, he said." Despite a few differences concerning tactical issues, the president and prime minister have similar strategies for Russia, so their differences, if any, are groundless. This suggests that only one will run for presidency. Opposition leaders think otherwise. Leaders of the Communists and Liberal Democrats urged both to compete for presidency. This move would be understandable for the Russian society and would introduce elements of competition to the election process. Leader of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky has this to say. "Both the president and prime minister should run if they can’t make a choice. No one should become a domineering figure in the elections. If both are running, people won’t have to rack their brains about who to side with. Both. Producing a decision one month before the elections is not a good idea. All candidates should state clearly that they are all taking part, including the president and prime minister. This would put the country on the path of democracy and sustainable development." As passions over the election issue continue to run high, President Medvedev has come up with a number of important initiatives, including a bill that will make it easier for political parties to win parliamentary seats. The current 7 percent threshold parties must clear to get into parliament was lowered to 5 percent. Experts welcome the move as democratic. Also, Medvedev supported the nomination of St.Petersburg Governor Valentina Matvienko for the post of Federation Council Speaker. Earlier reports suggested that the position would go to presidential envoy for Africa Mikhail Margelov. Matvienko has a clear advantage, having been backed by both the governors and president.  Ilya Kharlamov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 July 07####Official on possible date of Russia's presidential election########The presidential election in Russia may be held on March 4-11 2012, the secretary of the Central Election Commission Nikolai Konkin said Thursday.The presidential election in Russia may be held on March 4-11 2012, the secretary of the Central Election Commission Nikolai Konkin said Thursday. He said it will happen if the government decides to announce March 9 and 10 as the days off following the celebration of Women’s Day on March 8. Speaking about the elections of the deputies of the lower house of parliament, Konkin confirmed that they will be held in December 4, 2011. When answering the question of the Voice of Russia on how the elections will be organized abroad he said that about 400 electoral districts will be opened in different countries and In Germany, Israel and Latvia electronic ballot boxes will be installed. The same technology will be used at Russia’s Baikonur spaceport in Kazakhstan he added.   Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 July 21####Russia may elect president on March 4, 2012########The most likely presidential election date in Russia may be March 4, 2012, according to a government decree on public holidays in 2012.The most likely presidential election date in Russia may be March 4, 2012, according to a government decree on public holidays in 2012. The document envisages shifting a holiday from March 11,  which was scheduled for the elections by Russia’s Election Commission as it’s the second Sunday of March, to March 9. The  day-off is dedicated  to March 8, which is the International Women’s Day.  Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 July 27####Medvedev tightens electoral screws########President Medvedev has told electoral commissions at all levels that their work affects public trust in the government, and they must step up preparations for the next parliamentary and presidential elections, respectively in December and March. Meeting with electoral officials on Wednesday, he also described the upcoming elections as Russia’s most important in a decade.President Medvedev has told electoral commissions at all levels that their work affects public trust in the government, and they must step up preparations for the next parliamentary and presidential elections, respectively in December and March. Meeting with electoral officials on Wednesday, he also described the upcoming elections as Russia’s most important in a decade. Russia, elections, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 06####Russia's got bizarre candidate for presidency########On Monday, the 5th of September, well-known media  person Ivan Okhlobystin made an announcement at a press-conference that he intended to run for the presidency in 2012. He also pointed out that in order to go in for politics he needed approval of the Russian Orthodox Church.On Monday, the 5th of September, well-known media  person Ivan Okhlobystin made an announcement at a press-conference that he intended to run for the presidency in 2012. He also pointed out that in order to go in for politics he needed approval of the Russian Orthodox Church. His presidential programme includes extension of the term of presidency to 14 years and a revival of the military. Okhlobystin was always interested in politics – in the 1990s he was a member of the Kedr environmental party which wanted the restoration of the monarchy in Russia. Okhlobystin became a priest at the time when he was quite a successful actor and scriptwriter. In February last year, at his request, Patriarch Kirill dismissed him from priesthood and in December Okhlobystin became the creative director for the Yevroset mobile phone retail chain. The Moscow Patriarchate believes that Ivan Okhlobystin should ask the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church and the Holy Synod for permission to put forward his candidature at the presidential election. “A priest can be nominated for any position in the government only if the Holy Synod blesses him to do that. As for canvassing for himself, he is not allowed to do this in any case. This means that there is only one way for Father Ivan Okhlobystin – giving up his nomination and canvassing,” the head of the Department for External Church Relations of the Holy Synod Vsevolod Chaplin declared. On the other hand, the Central Election Commission of the Russian Federation does not have any objections: according to the law, Ivan Okhlobystin has the right to run for president. “According to the law, there are no restrictions for those who work for religious organizations, and they have the right to be elected to any position including the president’s position,” said Maya Grishina from the Central Election Commission of the Russian Federation. “This is really going to be something out of the ordinary, with my reputation and my difficult biography. What is my motivation? I will not promise people 3-million roubles pensions. On the other hand, I can offer a philosophical concept, which few candidates can boast,” the actor said at a press-conference on Monday. Okhlobystin gave an evasive answer to the question about financial sources for his election campaign. He said that “everything good happens with God’s help”. Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Ivan Okhlobystin, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 07####Will Russian priest run for president?########Russian actor and screenwriter Ivan Okhlobystin announced earlier this week that he would run for the presidency. The news came as a big surprise for both members of a secular society and the clergy since Okhlobystin is also a Russian Orthodox priest, though temporarily defrocked from priesthood.Russian actor and screenwriter Ivan Okhlobystin announced earlier this week that he would run for the presidency. The news came as a big surprise for both members of a secular society and the clergy since Okhlobystin is also a Russian Orthodox priest, though temporarily defrocked from priesthood. Okhlobystin`s decision to run for the presidency has become one of the most widely discussed topics on the web, especially on Twitter. The Russian Orthodox Church and the Central Election Commission got involved in hot debates on whether a priest can join a presidential race, while the country’s prominent politicians shared their views on Okhlobystin`s candidacy. By the way, neither a priest nor an actor has ever ruled Russia. In an interview with the VoR, Mr. Oleg Lavrov of the Russian Election Commission said that any Russian citizen may run for the presidency: “Under the law, any citizen has the right to elect and be elected. Neither any restriction may be imposed on priests here. But as it turned out, the Russian Orthodox Church has its own regulations, banning a priest from running for the presidency. This was confirmed by Okhlobystin himself. Ivan should be credited for that for he has done a very successful PR campaign”. Oleg Lavrov added that Okhlobystin chose the right time to make his controversial announcement – long ahead of Russia’s next presidential elections but just days before his Doctrine 77 show at the Luzhniki stadium in Moscow. Described as ‘a literature evening’, the show is expected to unveil Okhlobystin`s view on what is going on in Russia and present his philosophical concept which, he says, will revive the Russian nation: “I have several long-cherished wishes, and they all comply with those of the Russian Orthodox Church, including the one about the revival of the empire. I have nearly 8 million of supporters, so I won`t face any difficulties with the number of votes”, Okhlobystin said. However, the Church is against Okhlobystin`s intention to run for the country`s highest office. When asked by the VoR to comment on the issue, Archpriest Vsevolod Chaplin, head of the Church's social affairs department, said: “In early 2011 the Council of Bishops of the Russian Orthodox Church confirmed their unanimous position which bans priests from going into politics. It means that hierarchs and clergymen should not work for neither executive nor judicial institutions, except providing pastoral care to those people who are employed there. Priests are absolutely banned from joining any political party. So, Father Ivan Okhlobystin has to give up his intention”. Despite the fact that the Moscow Patriarchate has such a tough position on the issue, Okhlobystin believes that if such is his destiny, the church will accept his decision. He is going to appeal to the Holy Synod and personally to Patriarch Kirill to allow him to run. “If they tell me not to, I will remove my candidacy without any doubt. The opinion of the church is what really matters for me, not politics. The church is my family”, Okhlobystin said.   Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Ivan Okhlobystin, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 08####Russian actor and priest enters presidential race########As the presidential elections season heats up in the US, it is also heating up in the Russian Federation. Incumbent President Dmitry Medvedev is facing stiff opposition from Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who is seeking to reclaim the presidential office. And now a new and very recognizable candidate has entered the fray. Ivan Okhlobystin has announced his bid for presidency.As the presidential elections season heats up in the US, it is also heating up in the Russian Federation. Incumbent President Dmitry Medvedev is facing stiff opposition from Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who is seeking to reclaim the presidential office. And now a new and very recognizable candidate has entered the fray. Ivan Okhlobystin has announced his bid for presidency. Who is he and will he have an effect on this race? Mark Urnov, Academic Supervisor at High School of Economics in Moscow, believes it’s nothing more than an “ironic PR campaign” on the part of Mr. Okhlobystin, who has, in his view, no chance of winning. Kim Brown Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Ivan Okhlobystin, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 16####Medvedev and Putin should run for president - opinion polls########42 percent of Russians want to see both Dmitry Medvedev and Vladimir Putin running for presidency next spring, Levada Center reports. 41 percent of Russians expect Putin to return to presidency. Medvedev’s chances are fewer, as only 39 percent of respondents expect him to be re-elected. Most Russians, however, approve Medvedev’s decisions and share his views.42 percent of Russians want to see both Dmitry Medvedev and Vladimir Putin running for presidency next spring, Levada Center reports. 41 percent of Russians expect Putin to return to presidency. Medvedev’s chances are fewer, as only 39 percent of respondents expect him to be re-elected. Most Russians, however, approve Medvedev’s decisions and share his views. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 22####United Russia party congress opens in Moscow on Friday########A congress of the ruling United Russia party opens in Moscow on September 23 in an event that may shed more light on who will lead United Russia’s party ticket during the upcoming parliamentary elections and who will run in the presidential polls in Russia in 2012.A congress of the ruling United Russia party opens in Moscow on September 23 in an event that may shed more light on who will lead United Russia’s party ticket during the upcoming parliamentary elections and who will run in the presidential polls in Russia in 2012. During the congress, United Russia members plan to adopt a pre-election program and discuss a list of nominees for the post of State Duma deputies. The congress will for the first time see the participation of United Russia’s non-members. A total of 10,000 people are due to take part, including representatives of non-governmental organizations, which earlier entered the All-Russian People’s Front. This will enable to involve all those indifferent to politics and even critical of United Russia, says Andrei Vorobyov, head of United Russia’s central executive committee. "Participating in the forum will also be representatives of foreign parties, Vorobyov says, citing United Russia’s collaboration with 13 parties from a number of countries. United Russia, he adds, is also a member of the International Conference of Asian Political Parties and the International of Centrist and Democratic Parties." More than 130 foreign delegates will take part in the congress, Vorobyov says, citing Serbia, Finland, Greece, Brazil, South Africa, Turkey and Lithuania. The first day of the congress will see the holding of six sections on problems pertaining to civil society, economics and fight against corruption – something that is expected to be attended by Russian Prime Minister and United Russia leader Vladimir Putin. He will also grapple with a string of ordinary people’s proposals related to the party’s due-to-be-adopted program, explains Sergei Neverov, secretary of United Russia’s General Council Presidium. "People from all across Russia have contributed to creating United Russia’s program, which will become our legislative basis in the next five years," Neverov says. The second day of the forum will deal with a raft of staff reshuffle issues, Neverov says, adding that President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin of Russia are expected to speak at the congress on September 24. "The suggestion is that during his address, Medvedev will outline a host of tasks United Russia is due to deal with in the future," Neverov goes on to say. United Russia is poised to win an overwhelming victory during the forthcoming parliamentary polls, he says, adding that Vladimir Putin will hopefully at the helm of United Russia during the December 4 elections. "Our party list was compiled during a pre-election campaign this summer, which was held by United Russia along with the All-Russian People’s Front, Neverov explains, citing the participation of 4,700 people in the primaries. The list includes 600 people, among them more than 150 non-party members." Neverov said that he does not exclude that Dmitry Medvedev may be put on the list, a topic that he says will be  discussed during the congress. "We do hope that President Medvedev will shore up United Russia, Neverov says, adding that a final decision will be announced at the congress." September 25 will see the opening of the Mediaforum, which will be held under the aegis of the All-Russian People’s Front. Representatives of Russian and foreign media will meet an array of newsmakers, including Russia’s government officials. Taking part in the event will be more than 1,300 accredited journalists from Russia and beyond. Lada Korotun World, Opinion & Analysis, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian parliamentary elections, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####2012 riddle – still no answer########Who will top the list of parliamentary candidates? Will Vladimir Putin return to the Kremlin and Dmitry Medvedev move to the State Duma as speaker, as some analysts speculate? Many hoped the answer to one or both these questions would come on Friday when the ruling United Russia party opened its two-day congress at Moscow’s Dvor business center.Who will top the list of parliamentary candidates? Will Vladimir Putin return to the Kremlin and Dmitry Medvedev move to the State Duma as speaker, as some analysts speculate? Many hoped the answer to one or both these questions would come on Friday when the ruling United Russia party opened its two-day congress at Moscow’s Dvor business center. Friday came and went, but expectations are still rife that Putin and Medvedev will end the drawn out political limbo by finally saying publicly today whether one of them will run for president in the March 2012 election when they address some 11,000 party delegates, reporters and observers gathered in the Luzhniki sports palace… Some experts believe Saturday may bring two major scoops: first, that Putin and Medvedev may both lead the UR ticket in the December 4 parliamentary elections and, second, who of them will run for president in March 2012. The tandem topping the UR list looks pretty viable to most experts, with Institute of Modern Development director Igor Yurgens hoping that Medvedev will join the list and then, acting on the strength of UR voters,   will reach out to other parties and become their joint candidate for President. Bloomberg experts speculate that “President Dmitry Medvedev may support the United Russia party, which is led by Vladimir Putin, meaning there are no serious differences between the two “against the backdrop of the lingering uncertainty over who of them is going to run in 2012.” Other Western publicans are sure that, barring some last minute turnarounds, Vladimir Putin will run for the country’s top job. Many believe that the ruling tandem will prefer to keep us all guessing until after the December parliamentary elections. And still, judging by what is being said on the sidelines of the UR convention, we may be in for some kind of a surprise announcement already before the day is out. In any case, the delegates advised the journalists not to rack their brains trying to guess what exactly kind of surprise to prepare for… Russia, Opinion & Analysis, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Medvedev backs Putin for president########President Dmitry Medvedev has proposed Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to run for Russian president in next year's election. Before that Medvedev met Putin’s offer to head the United Russia’s party list in the December 4 parliamentary elections.President Dmitry Medvedev has proposed Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to run for Russian president in next year's election. Before that Medvedev met Putin’s offer to head the United Russia’s party list in the December 4 parliamentary elections. "I think it would be fair if the congress approved Vladimir Putin's candidacy for the presidency," Medvedev said to a standing ovation by the delegates of the annual congress of the ruling United Russia party on Saturday. Addressing the annual congress of the ruling United Russia party on Saturday, Dmitry Medvedev lavished praise on the work done by the party in promoting democracy and improving the country’s economic performance.  He also hailed the party’s strong effort  in fighting corruption, red tape  and  promoting economic modernization.   Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Medvedev backs Putin, accepts party leadership########Russian President Dmitry Medvedev has proposed Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to run for president in March 2012. "I think it would be fair if the congress approved Vladimir Putin's candidacy for the presidency," Medvedev said to a standing ovation by the delegates of the annual congress of the ruling United Russia party on Saturday.Russian President Dmitry Medvedev has proposed Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to run for president in March 2012. "I think it would be fair if the congress approved Vladimir Putin's candidacy for the presidency," Medvedev said to a standing ovation by the delegates of the annual congress of the ruling United Russia party on Saturday. Dmitry Medvedev then said he had agreed to head the United Russia party list in the December 4 parliamentary elections. Vladimir Putin, who was the first to address the delegates, said that the party list was to be headed by the President which, he emphasized, would add to the party’s  clout and lead it to victory. Dmitry Medvedev accepted the offer. “We are united in our determination to implement the goals we have set ourselves and we are all set to win these elections,” the President said.  He reminded  the party’s political opponents that a mere decade ago the country was in a state of economic disrepair comparable to the effects of a civil war. “We rebuilt our beloved Russia and we will not give her up to those out to destroy her by making impossible promises,” he added. Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Putin to run for president in 2012########Prime Minister Vladimir Putin will run for Russian President in March 2012. Putin said this when addressing Saturday’s congress of his ruling United Russia party, where his candidacy had earlier been proposed by President Dmitry Medvedev. “It’s a great honor and I’m grateful for this proposal,” Putin said.Prime Minister Vladimir Putin will run for Russian President in March 2012. Putin said this when addressing Saturday’s congress of his ruling United Russia party, where his candidacy had earlier been proposed by President Dmitry Medvedev. “It’s a great honor and I’m grateful for this proposal,” Putin said. Dmitry Medvedev had earlier proposed Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to run for president in March 2012. "I think it would be fair if the congress approved Vladimir Putin's candidacy for the presidency," Medvedev said to a standing ovation by the delegates of the annual congress of the ruling United Russia party on Saturday who unanimously backed Putin’s candidacy.   Dmitry Medvedev then said he had agreed to head the United Russia party list in the December 4 parliamentary elections. Vladimir Putin, who was the first to address the delegates, said that the party list was to be headed by the President which, he emphasized, would add to the party’s clout and lead it to victory. Dmitry Medvedev accepted the offer. “We are united in our determination to implement the goals we have set ourselves and we are all set to win these elections,” the President said. He reminded the party’s political opponents that a mere decade ago the country was in a state of economic disrepair comparable to the effects of a civil war. “We rebuilt our beloved Russia and we will not give her up to those out to destroy her by making impossible promises,” he added. Vladimir Putin said that as Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev would put together a capable team of young professionals to modernize Russia. Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Putin thanks United Russia for supporting his candidacy for presidency########Vladimir Putin has thanked the United Russia party for supporting the initiative of nominating him as a candidate for presidency.Vladimir Putin has thanked the United Russia party for supporting the initiative of nominating him as a candidate for presidency. “This is a great honour to me,” the Russian Prime Minister and leader of United Russia said in reply to President Dmitry Medvedev’s initiative to put forward his candidacy for the 2012 presidential election which was enthusiastically supported by the delegates of the congress of United Russia. Putin also expressed confidence that Medvedev will successfully head the Russian government in the future. “I am convinced that United Russia will win the parliamentary election and, with a nationwide support, Dmitry Medvedev will build a new effective management team and head the Russian government to continue the modernization of all aspects of our life.” Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Putin nominated for President########A national convention of the governing United Russia party has overwhelmingly approved a proposal by Dmitry Medvedev to nominate Prime Minister Putin to run for President in elections in March 2012. There was rapturous applause on the floor. Putin extended thanks and looked forward to a Medvedev-led government under him.A national convention of the governing United Russia party has overwhelmingly approved a proposal by Dmitry Medvedev to nominate Prime Minister Putin to run for President in elections in March 2012. There was rapturous applause on the floor. Putin extended thanks and looked forward to a Medvedev-led government under him. He hoped United Russian would win a landslide victory in parliamentary elections in December, enabling Medvedev to put together a professional team for advancing modernization. Putin thanks United Russia for supporting his candidacy for presidency Vladimir Putin has thanked the United Russia party for supporting the initiative of nominating him as a candidate for presidency. “This is a great honour to me,” the Russian Prime Minister and leader of United Russia said in reply to President Dmitry Medvedev’s initiative to put forward his candidacy for the 2012 presidential election which was enthusiastically supported by the delegates of the congress of United Russia. Putin also expressed confidence that Medvedev will successfully head the Russian government in the future. “I am convinced that United Russia will win the parliamentary election and, with a nationwide support, Dmitry Medvedev will build a new effective management team and head the Russian government to continue the modernization of all aspects of our life.”   Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Presidential election in Russia: the major intrigue solved########The major political intrigue of the year has been solved as President Medvedev told a United Russia convention on Saturday that he recommended Prime Minister and United Russia leader Vladimir Putin for competing for presidency in the 2012 presidential election. As for Medvedev, he will head the United Russia list in parliamentary elections in December this year.The major political intrigue of the year has been solved as President Medvedev told a United Russia convention on Saturday that he recommended Prime Minister and United Russia leader Vladimir Putin for competing for presidency in the 2012 presidential election. As for Medvedev, he will head the United Russia list in parliamentary elections in December this year. All throughout the year, experts have been racking their brains over which one of the Medvedev-Putin tandem will run for president in the 2012 election. Not a day went by without analysts trying to trick the president or prime minister into answering the main political question of the year: Who will be next? Putin is the leader of United Russia, the country’s most popular one, which nominated Medvedev for presidency in 2007. The president and prime minister both attended a United Russia congress on Saturday while experts held their breath in anticipation. As he took the floor, Vladimir Putin had this to say. "Members of United Russia, our supporters expect the president and prime minister to make proposals about the configuration of power and power structures after the elections. President Medvedev and I reached agreement on our plans for the future a few years ago. The main question to be answered now is who will lead the United Russia list in parliamentary elections in December. Many of our colleagues and supporters suggested that it should be me. But it became traditional in recent years that the president should stand at the top of the list. Tradition has to be observed. For this reason, I propose that the United Russia list should be headed by incumbent President Dmitry Medvedev." In his speech, Dmitry Medvedev made a sensational revelation as to who of the ruling tandem would run for president in the next election. "Vladimir Putin has just asked me to head United Russia in parliamentary elections. I accept the offer. Given that as a top United Russia candidate, I will have to deal with party issues and will work in the government in case of victory, it’d be the right decision to support the candidature of Vladimir Putin for the presidential election. Our decision is a well-considered one." Both Dmitry Medvedev and Vladimir Putin underscored that they form a consolidated position and that rumours about a split or confrontation within the tandem are groundless. Both members of the tandem are unanimous about their strategies and views of the country’s political future. Putin’s election program coincided with Medvedev’s agenda. Both leaders envisage industrial modernization, departure from a raw materials-based to an innovative economy, social stability and a strong, independent foreign policy. Putin pledges that Russia will be among the top five economies in five years. This agenda will be implemented in tandem with Dmitry Medvedev, who will become prime minister in case United Russia wins parliamentary elections and Vladimir Putin wins presidential vote. "I’m thankful for selecting me as a candidate for presidency, Putin said. It’s a great honor for me. I hope for your support in the future. If I become president, I’ll have to form a government. All these are significant stages in creating a foundation for political stability in Russia. State Duma elections mark the first step in this direction. I appeal to all Untied Russia members, all our supporters and all Russians to vote for United Russia and its candidates headed by Dmitry Medvedev. I’m sure that United Russia will win and that Dmitry Medvedev will build a young, energetic and smoothly functioning team and come to head the Russian government for a major revamp of all aspects of our life." The United Russia convention unanimously voted in favor of the two proposals. Dmitry Medvedev will head United Russia in the Duma elections, and Vladimir Putin will be a United Russia candidate during the presidential race. Nobody doubts that United Russia, consolidated by the unity of views and goals, is going to win, President Medvedev said.    Mikhail Romanov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Putin unveils bold programme########Russia must return to a 7-percent-per-annum growth, so as to become the world’s fifth biggest economy in the coming five years. It must also create 25 million modern jobs over the next two decades.Russia must return to a 7-percent-per-annum growth, so as to become the world’s fifth biggest economy in the coming five years. It must also create 25 million modern jobs over the next two decades. Prime Minister Putin has unveiled this programme at a convention of his United Russia party after accepting a nomination to run for President in elections in 2012. The proposal to nominate him came from Dmitry Medvedev. The latter pledged every effort to advance modernization at the head of the next government. Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Medvedev-Putin: 2012 puzzle solved########On Sunday, Russia’s ruling United Russia party held a congress that revealed the most burning intrigue – President Dmitry Medvedev endorsed PM Vladimir Putin, who leads the party, for president in 2012.On Sunday, Russia’s ruling United Russia party held a congress that revealed the most burning intrigue – President Dmitry Medvedev endorsed PM Vladimir Putin, who leads the party, for president in 2012. Medvedev in his turn will top the list at the December elections to the State Duma. The VoR talked to several experts who assess the convention differently. The majority said that its results was predictable while others expected an alternative scenario. Statements by Putin and Medvedev were today’s main newsmakers in both Russian and foreign media which are talking Putin’s run for president. Political analysts who were longing to know the 2012 candidate now say that was foreseeable, says Alexander Rahr, the head of German Council on Foreign Relations: "I believe that everyone realized that Putin is the key figure in the country. His tandem with Medvedev changed a lot in the last 4 years introducing top-level pluralism in Russia. However, they had some minor controversies and the tandem will be peacefully dissolved the same way it was formed. Putin will become president and Medvedev gets a unique chance to become his long-term crown prince and heir." Editor-in-chief of London’s open Democarcy web-magazine  Zygmunt Dzieciolowski disagrees: "I expected Medvedev to stay or a third candidate to enter the scene. However, this choice has its logic as Putin remains the country’s leader respected and popular. Hard times are coming as the next decade we’ll be tough. This might have caused the choice of a stronger leader." Russian experts also views the issue differently. Vladimir Kashin from the opposition Communist party is critical: "We knew that the tandem had made its choice long time ago both for presidential and Duma elections. For the last decade Russia had its industry, science and agriculture ruined so this policy will bring other failures." "Alexander Shokhin, authoritative business manager and the head of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs finds the decision a reasonable and balanced approach to the transition of power and political stability." "Four years ago the government rotated right before the elections which  was outside the domain of public politics. Now we have a basis for personal changes in the government which I find important and more transparent. Thus I positively assess the congress to be good for political system and economic policy." Now foreign analysts are concerned over possible changes in Russian domestic and foreign policy. Meanwhile, the tandem promises to continue the policy pursued which means it’s not over. Mikhail Romanov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian Parliamentary elections 2011, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Putin nomination act of wisdom - analyst########In an interview with ITAR-TASS Saturday, the German analyst Alexander Rahr described United Russia’s approval of a Medvedev-Putin posts swap as an act of political rationalism, which promises the Russians a period of stability, allows Putin to exercise leadership and enables Medvedev to focus efforts of his liberal reform programme.In an interview with ITAR-TASS Saturday, the German analyst Alexander Rahr described United Russia’s approval of a Medvedev-Putin posts swap as an act of political rationalism, which promises the Russians a period of stability, allows Putin to exercise leadership and enables Medvedev to focus efforts of his liberal reform programme. Putin was President for two terms before the election of Dmitry Medvedev in 2008. Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Putin nomination wins Church applause########The Russian Church praises the planned handover from Medvedev to Putin as an instance of orderly leadership change which makes for peace and prosperity for millions of Russians. Father Vsevolod Chaplin of the Moscow Patriarchate said on Saturday that Russia has found a way to change leaders without conflict. He challenged other nations to emulate.The Russian Church praises the planned handover from Medvedev to Putin as an instance of orderly leadership change which makes for peace and prosperity for millions of Russians. Father Vsevolod Chaplin of the Moscow Patriarchate said on Saturday that Russia has found a way to change leaders without conflict. He challenged other nations to emulate. Russia, Russian Orthodox Church, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 24####Reset in relations indifferent to leadership change - US########According to Mr Tommy Vietor, who speaks for the US National Security Council, the reset in his country’s relations with Russia cannot be affected by Moscow leadership change. He said Medvedev and Putin are equally welcome when it comes to expanding cooperation and building ties.According to Mr Tommy Vietor, who speaks for the US National Security Council, the reset in his country’s relations with Russia cannot be affected by Moscow leadership change. He said Medvedev and Putin are equally welcome when it comes to expanding cooperation and building ties. Russia, World, Russian-US relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 25####World backs Putin's move to reclaim presidency in 2012########The world supports Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s decision to run for president in next year’s elections. On Saturday, US National Security Council Spokesman Tommy Vietor signaled his country’s readiness to continue the “reset” of relations between Moscow and Washington regardless of who becomes the next Russian president.The world supports Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s decision to run for president in next year’s elections. On Saturday, US National Security Council Spokesman Tommy Vietor signaled his country’s readiness to continue the “reset” of relations between Moscow and Washington regardless of who becomes the next Russian president. He said that “this is something that is in the mutual interests of the United States, Russia and the world.” German Chancellor Angela Merkel, for her part, said on Saturday that “cooperation with any Russian president will be successful because German and Russia currently continue to expand strategic partnership.” British media said that Putin’s approval ratings show no sign of slumping and that during his presidency, he may focus on implementing liberal reforms and backing business. The Daily Telegraph newspaper, in particular, cited Putin’s considerable contribution to “Russia’s national identity and economic recovery in the wake of the Soviet Union’s collapse in 1991.”   Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 25####West’s reaction on Putin’s decision to reclaim presidency########The US has expressed confidence that Washington’s “reset” of relations with Moscow will continue irrespective of who becomes the next Russian president.The US has expressed confidence that Washington’s “reset” of relations with Moscow will continue irrespective of who becomes the next Russian president. Germany in turn indicated its intent to cooperate with any Russian leader, while foreign media said that Putin’s readiness to run in next year’s presidential elections is a budding signal for Russia’s financial markets. Speaking to reporters on Saturday, White House Spokesman Tommy Vietor signaled Washington’s readiness to continue the “reset” of relations between Russia and the United States regardless of who becomes the next Russian president. Saturday also saw the resolution of a main intrigue related to the upcoming presidential elections in Russia. During a United Russia party congress, Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said that he will run in the presidential polls, while Russia’s President Dmitry Medvedev signaled desire to lead United Russia’s party list of candidates for the parliamentary elections and become a Prime Minister. For his part, Vietor heaped praise on what he touted as “very robust working relations with President Medvedev,” adding that Vladimir Putin served as Russia’s Prime Minister during the “reset” of Russian-US ties. Vietor pledged to further “the reset” regardless of who becomes the next Russian president for it is in the mutual interests of the United States, Russia and the world.  He added that deciding on the next president is something that should be resolved by Russian people. For his part, Germany’s government spokesman Steffen Zeibert quoted German Chancellor Angela Merkel as saying on Saturday that Russian Premier Vladimir Putin’s taking part in the presidential elections is related to “Russian’s internal affairs.” Merkel added that cooperation with any Russian leader will be successful given the ongoing strategic partnership between Germany and Russia.   The British press regards Putin’s decision to run for presidency as quite predictable expecting him to win two consecutive terms. The British papers note that Putin remains the most popular politician in Russia, who will conduct liberal reforms and support business during his new presidency.  "Mr Putin is now likely to win two consecutive 6 year terms, giving him a total of a quarter century in power from the time he took over the Kremlin in 2000", - Financial Times read. "He remains Russia’s strongest political figure despite stepping aside for four years.", - the newspaper read. The Times makes a similar conclusion: “58-year-old Putin has an opportunity in this episode ruled for two terms, the duration of which would total 12 years – until 2024. This listing has ended months of uncertainty, although most experts had hoped, in fact resumed Putin takes the Kremlin." Declaration of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to stand for the third term at 2012 presidential elections is good news for financial markets in Russia in a short-term period, Financial Times continues commenting the results of the ruling party’s Congress. On Saturday, the main plot of the coming presidential elections was unveiled. At the United Russia’s Congress it was announced that Putin will run for presidency, while the current president Dmitri Medvedev will top the party’s list of candidates at the coming parliamentary elections and consequently become Prime Minister. "Market turmoil has hit Russia hard ... With less political uncertainty, the authorities may hope that capital flight eases, and that some may return capital in coming months to take advantage of cheaper asset prices," Charles Robertson, analyst with Renaissance Capital says. In a long-term prospective a lot will depend on whether Putin sticks to the current strategy of the national economic development based on resources or chooses for more challenging path of the national economy’s diversification. Russia, Opinion & Analysis, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian Parliamentary elections 2011, Elections 2011. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 25####Russian leadership unchanged – Kremlin########Answering speculation in the West, Kremlin spokeswoman Natalya Timakova has told reporters that all senior officials are continuing as they are, and any consultations about the next Cabinet line-up will have to wait until after parliamentary and presidential elections in the period from December to March.Answering speculation in the West, Kremlin spokeswoman Natalya Timakova has told reporters that all senior officials are continuing as they are, and any consultations about the next Cabinet line-up will have to wait until after parliamentary and presidential elections in the period from December to March. Although in agreement on a swap next spring, Putin stays the Prime Minister, and Medvedev, the President. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, election to the State Duma 2011, Russian Parliamentary elections 2011, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 26####Russia in 2012: stability guaranteed########The 2012 dilemma concerning political analysts and the media for a year was over  on September 24.  Vladimir Putin’s decision to run for the 2012 presidency and Medvedev’s intention to top the United Russia list  for the parliamentary elections hit the headlines.The 2012 dilemma concerning political analysts and the media for a year was over  on September 24.  Vladimir Putin’s decision to run for the 2012 presidency and Medvedev’s intention to top the United Russia list  for the parliamentary elections hit the headlines. Some experts believe that the intrigue will not go until the March presidential elections. However, even negative commentators agree that Putin’s comeback means stability in Russian foreign and domestic policy. Such a switch was unexpected even for the tandem’s milieu. Deputy –Premier Igor Shuvalov told reporters that nobody in the government knew about this scenario. However, a Kremlin source says that Putin’s return had been planned a long time ago while Medvedev’s heading the list was new as the ruling party’s campaign was Putin-based. The party’s head Boris Gryzlov and Sergey Neverov were sure that PM will lead the party to the State Duma.  All Kremlin –related figures believe that the tandem agreed on the cast change  in mid August. Some analysts say that such a twist was expected and Russia’s policy will not change. Others, including the head of the Politika Fund Vyacheslav Nikonov believe that Russia’s political arena will be transformed: "Russian policy certainly will become more predictable and the leading tandem will support United Russia bringing it to victory in March and December. However this decision was taken seriously by the opposition that is critical about Putin and the West that treats PM lukewarmly." Some Western analysts were critical but some assessed Putin’s possible comeback positively. The British Media believed that it may worsen relations with the West, mainly Washington. “Western leaders have found it difficult dealing with Vladimir Putin - they will have to get used to the prospect that once again he will be the man they will need to do business with”, writes BBC observer. Moscow-Berlin relations may also be complicated as Merkel’s government is pro-Medvedev oriented  and supports his modernization initiatives. However, Merkel stated that she is ready to work with any Russian leader as the countries share  partnership. The New York Times, in their turn, writes that Putin may become a good reformer on his third term. London’s Financial Times also sees a positive side in the comeback as stability in Russian policy may pacify  the markets. Head of the European Center for Geopolitical Analysis, Mateusz Piskorski shares this view: "Putin’s presidential run is efficient in the backdrop of  the global financial and economic crisis. This also makes Russian policy predictable while some experts foretold instability and feared it. Thus, the decision ensures Russia’s stable economic, financial and external policy." One more factor can contribute to stability if Putin and United Russia get the helm. On the one hand the tandem  promised serious changes in the government but the key officials will stay as they are tuned in–says the deputy head of the Center for Political Techniques Alexei Makarkin: "Experienced and authoritative people will stay though some officials from the government may join the presidential team. When Putin left the Kremlin in 2008 he took some officials from his Administration. I think the next rotation will be  the same  but  still significant." While the majority of analysts think that the game is played some still believe in the intrigue. The head of Russia’s Center for Political Information Alexei Mukhin sees certainty only in Medvedev’s non-presidency while the rest will  be decided at the presidential elections. Igor Siletsky Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 27####US will work with next Russian president - Toner########The U.S. will work with whoever takes the post of Russian president stated U.S. State Department spokesman Mark Toner. He added that the U.S. will continue negotiations with Russia on missile defense in Europe and support Moscow’s entry into the World Trade Organization, regardless of who becomes the next Russian president.The U.S. will work with whoever takes the post of Russian president stated U.S. State Department spokesman Mark Toner. He added that the U.S. will continue negotiations with Russia on missile defense in Europe and support Moscow’s entry into the World Trade Organization, regardless of who becomes the next Russian president. On September 24 at the Congress of Russia’s ruling party; "United Russia", it was announced that Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is to run for president in 2012, and incumbent President Dmitry Medvedev will head the list for the "United Russia" Party in the parliamentary elections. If he wins he would then become prime minister. RBC-News Russia, World, Russian-US relations, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 27####Russia's policy remains stable########While the United States is in the presidential reelections cycle with the 2012 elections just looming over the horizonWhile the United States is in the presidential reelections cycle with the 2012 elections just looming over the horizon and there is plenty of activity in the form of debates and straw polls, Russia is also anticipating a 2012 presidential election and it may have come as a surprise to some but not as the surprise to many that Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has announced that he is indeed seeking again the office of the presidency. Commenting on this will be Mr. Dmitry Babich, a political analyst at RIA Novosti news agency, Russia, who believes that the real surprise was the time of announcing Putin’s decision to return to the Kremlin as everyone was expecting it would be done it the last moment. But nevertheless, Mr. Babich is sure that the markets will react positively to this announcement, because it means that Russia will stay a predictable country and there will be no real shifts in policy in the next few years. Kim Brown Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 27####Russia’s rating unchanged despite recent political events########Recent political events in Russia – declaration of President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin in 2012 to swap posts and the resignation of Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin – have not influenced the sovereign credit ratings, Standard&Poors agency said in a statement Tuesday.Recent political events in Russia – declaration of President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin in 2012 to swap posts and the resignation of Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin – have not influenced the sovereign credit ratings, Standard&Poors agency said in a statement Tuesday.  The experts of the agency don’t expect ant significant changes in economic and fainanical policy of Russia. Russia’s long-term rating on liabilities in foreign currenct is “BBB” with steady forecast. (RIA Novosti) Russia, Standard & Poor's, Russian presidential election 2012, credit rating, Economy Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 30####Election results cannot be foreseen - Medvedev########President Dmitry Medvedev has given an interview to the heads of three federal TV channels - Channel One, Rossiya One and NTV – in the wake of the decisions that were made public at the United Russia Congress last weekend.President Dmitry Medvedev has given an interview to the heads of three federal TV channels - Channel One, Rossiya One and NTV – in the wake of the decisions that were made public at the United Russia Congress last weekend. As he commented on his vision of the current situation in Russia, Dmitry Medvedev said that election results cannot be foreseen well in advance and that none of the candidates are immune to losing the vote. The recording was made on Thursday evening at the presidential residence outside Moscow. The interview lasting 25 minutes will be aired today at 8:30pm simultaneously on the three channels. According to the President’s spokeswoman Natalya Timakova,  this interview should not be considered as substituting the traditional end-of-year results with Dmitry Medvedev, which, as previously, will be released in late December. RIAN Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian Parliamentary elections 2011, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 30####Putin Russia's most influential person - Medvedev########The Russian President Dmitry Medvedev has said that he decided not to run for a second term in officeThe Russian President Dmitry Medvedev has said that he decided not to run for a second term in office since Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is the country’s most influential politician and his rating is higher than Medvedev’s. The Russian leader said this in an interview with the heads of Russia’s three leading TV channels, namely Channel One, Rossia and NTV. The interview is due on the air this Friday at 20:30 Moscow time. "It was clearly gratifying to realize that the incumbent President enjoyed a pretty high degree of confidence and that he had a really good electoral rating for the current situation. But it’s a fact that Prime Minister Putin is now certainly the most authoritative politician in Russia, and his popularity rating is somewhat higher. After all, it is not a secret that some people would like us to quarrel at some point and start competing against each other. So, let me tell you that this will never happen, Medvedev said. We are set on achieving a political result, on winning the December parliamentary elections and the presidential elections in March next year, rather than fulfilling our ambitions," Dmitry Medvedev said. Last week, Medvedev suggested that Putin should run for President in March next year and said that he would work as Prime Minister instead. Putin said he had no objections. Medvedev also reaffirmed that he had reached a preliminary agreement with Putin on power configuration for 2011 and 2012 provided they enjoy popular confidence. The Russian President described claims that the outcome of the forthcoming elections is predetermined as irresponsible and provocative. The Head of the All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company Oleg Dobrodeyev has asked President Dmitry Medvedev just how public demand for new strong people in government will be met in Russia. According to Dobrodeyev, there is a feeling of certain personnel stagnation. Medvedev responded that renewal was a continuous process and that Russia will see new people in the government if he is entrusted with forming a new Cabinet. "The problem did not boil down to stagnation alone, although stagnation is dangerous and usually has very bad consequences. The problem is that the authorities should overcome themselves and keep changing. This can’t take the form of leaps and bounds, with one and all handing in their resignations at a time, waving their hands and leaving; with Vladimir Putin and me saying ‘bye-bye, we are stepping down’. There should be continuity; we should see just who remains at the helm. But, on the other hand, there should be a profound personnel renewal process. I have always tried to ensure that the process is continuous. Almost a half of Russian Governors have been replaced in the three years of my stay in office," Medvedev said, "and those who stepped down were by no means always pension-age people… they were different people. If the Russian citizens entrust the United Russia party with forming a new government, if they vote for United Russia, for our presidential candidate, if that government is formed in real terms, and if, finally, I am charged with the job, then let me tell you that this will be a cardinally renewed government, one that will consist of new people."   RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 30####Dmitry Medvedev on key issues########And so, the intrigue of the past several months has been unriddled. The incumbent Prime Minister Vladimir Putin willAnd so, the intrigue of the past several months has been unriddled. The incumbent Prime Minister Vladimir Putin will run for presidency, while President Dmitry Medvedev will lead the United Russia party’s candidate list at the December parliamentary polls. On Friday, the top managers of leading Russian TV channels – Rossiya 1, First Channel and NTV – Oleg Dobrodeyev, Konstantin Ernst and Vladimir Kulistikov received first-hand comment on this and other key issues from President Medvedev in person. Why did you refuse to satisfy your ambitions to run for a second term? That was the first question to Mr. Medvedev. "The main ambition for me is to be useful to my country and the people. It may sound a little bit pathos-like, but this is true. As for reasons… It was the United Russia party that put forward both Vladimir Putin and Dmitry Medvedev, him before and me afterwards, for presidency. We represent the same political force." Let’s put it this way: should we, sharing the same political force and similar views, should we compete with each other? I read various opinions by politologists who wondered: “How come that, instead of coming out onto the political pitch and saying: we will keep arguing to the end, we will stage a competition!...” But let me say, there are no such things in any country. People sharing the same political force choose where and who should go. Can you imagine, say, President Barack Obama competing with Hillary Clinton? And they were both candidates for presidency, both from the Democratic Party, and they made their decisions, judging from who is capable of showing the best results. And we too have made our decision. It’s pleasant to see that the incumbent president maintains a high degree of trust, but on the other hand, let me point out that Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is the most authoritative politician in our country at the moment - his rating is slightly higher. Often, people expect us to have a spat and engage in active confrontation on the political scene. Let me say, don’t expect this. We want to win the elections - parliamentary in December and presidential in March – and not just satisfy our ambitions. Dmitry Medvedev disagreed that the results of the December and March polls were predetermined. “The choice is made by the people… Any political figure can fail in an election, as can his political force…”, the president remarked. "The decisions passed at the party convention are no more than the party’s recommendations to support two persons during the elections. The choice is made by the people, this is not empty words – that’s absolutely the way it is… Nobody is insured against anything. What predetermination?" You know, if we, for example - let’s imagine for a moment that we reached an agreement with Gennady Andreyevich Zyuganov, Vladimir Volfovich Zhirinovsky, Sergei Mikhailovich Mironov that they stay away from the polls, and we, the great guys, will remain. In that case, this would be imitation. But they are not staying away. Let people decide whom to vote for, who has greater authority. No sooner had one intrigue been solved when another one emerged – the resignation of Alexei Kudrin as finance minister. Was it about discipline or essential differences? Dmitry Medvedev’s answer was as follows: "In Kudrin’s case, it’s about state discipline, nothing beyond that. We do not have a coalition government. Our country is not a parliamentary republic but a presidential one. Those who disagree should step aside. This is a tough position and I am determined to stick to it. I am sure that whoever leads the state will share the same principles." Speaking about Alexei Kudrin, I have the feeling that he has been in office for too long and perhaps he got bored. He came to me in February or March and said that he thought that there was no point for him to work in the future government – by the way, he knew nothing about our plans. So, I was surprised to hear all those statements. As for Alexei Kudrin himself – he is an experienced and good specialist. He will find a job and will be useful to the country. Commenting on the situation around the Right Cause party and its former chairman Mikhail Prokhorov, President Dmitry Medvedev said: "Speaking about Right Cause, unfortunately, they are chronically unlucky in not having responsible leaders. What happened lately has doubtless weakened the party. Let me remind you that I lead the candidate list of another party, so I will not comment on the situation in Right Cause and their problems. Just one thing: in my opinion, and this point of view coincides with the party’s view, our party is generous, as I said at the convention. Our parliament should reflect voter preferences of all Russian citizens: the opinions of the left, the centrists, the right, the conservatives, the democrats, in short, all whom people will vote for. Therefore, the legitimacy of a parliament in which all these forces are represented is considerably higher." As future prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev promised to continue his policy of reforms and modernization launched four years ago. There will be no stagnation, he said. "It’s not only about stagnation. Stagnation is always dangerous and fraught with very unpleasant consequences. The point is that power should be capable of self-renewal. This can’t happen in leaps when everyone resigns. It’s about continuity when we understand who stays at the helm. There should be renewal, and a serious one. I was trying to ensure that this renewal is a permanent process. Over the past years, the past three years, nearly half of the governors’ corps has been replaced. And those weren’t just people of the retirement age but very different people. This should happen everywhere: in the governors’ corps, in the police, in municipalities, and of course, in the federal government. But you can’t shake the government like a pear-tree. I often get messages from people, saying: “Sack this minister immediately! It’s a shame that he is still in office after such an accident!” What needs to be understood is that not all accidents depend on ministers. Nevertheless, the government should undergo renewal." Asked whether he felt the pressure of the blogosphere on him, Dmitry Medvedev, an active Internet user, said: "You know, had I felt this pressure in the direct meaning of this word, I would have found it very hard to be a president. But you are right – I do pay much attention to the Internet. Reactions to the United Russia convention, to the situation in the Right Cause party, to resignations – they are so different. While, some people say “it’s a disaster, the end of democracy”, others applaud and call for tougher action. The blogosphere reflects a difference in the positions of a great number of our people. Naturally, there are more young people than people of the middle age among Internet users. But it’s good that the Internet and the social networks react to all this. This is good." Dmitry Medvedev made clear that as long as he remained the incumbent head of state he would continue to actively perform his presidential duties. “I will not take any vacations or preoccupy myself with any separate election program. People should judge the president and the government from the way they work. This is also about democracy,” he said.  “The upcoming election campaign will be tough and, I hope, politically correct. We have all necessary legal mechanisms for that,” he concluded. Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Dmitry Medvedev, mass media, Russian presidential election 2012, Interview, Russian parliamentary elections, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 September 30####Medvedev for gradual succession of power########For a country to develop quickly and successfully, its top officials must change from time to time, Russia’s President Dmitry Medvedev believes. However, this must not be sudden and revolutionary changes, but gradual succession of power, he says. Mr. Medvedev said this in an interview to Russia’s leading TV channels.For a country to develop quickly and successfully, its top officials must change from time to time, Russia’s President Dmitry Medvedev believes. However, this must not be sudden and revolutionary changes, but gradual succession of power, he says. Mr. Medvedev said this in an interview to Russia’s leading TV channels. “Neither Prime Minister Putin nor me will ever leave our posts suddenly and unexpectedly,” he said. “We cannot just wave a hand one day and say: “We’ve decided to leave, good-bye!”.” “Renewals are needed everywhere – in the police, in local governments and in the country’s government,” Mr. Medvedev said. “During my presidency, I’ve changed nearly one half of Russia’s governors. If I become Prime Minister one day, I will work with a government with a totally new composition.” (TASS) Russia, Dmitry Medvedev, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 October 01####President Medvedev explains decision not to run########Russian President Dmitry Medvedev explained his decision not to run for a second term as being due to the fact that Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has a higher rating and is the country's most respected politician. The Head of State said this in an interview to the leading national TV channels.Russian President Dmitry Medvedev explained his decision not to run for a second term as being due to the fact that Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has a higher rating and is the country's most respected politician. The Head of State said this in an interview to the leading national TV channels. Last week, President Medvedev nominated Vladimir Putin to run for the Russian presidency in March 2012 and stated that he would continue to work in government. The Premier agreed to run. President Medvedev also confirmed that he and Putin have a preliminary agreement on the configuration of power in 2011 and 2012, if the trust of the people in them is present. The President called argument that the election results are a foregone conclusion, irresponsible and provocative.  RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 October 01####Medvedev: country needs come first########The last week of September was packed with political events. Russian and western media were still commenting on theThe last week of September was packed with political events. Russian and western media were still commenting on the “reshuffle” in the Putin-Medvedev tandem which was announced at the United Russia convention last week when another piece of “hot” news broke out in the middle of the week saying that President Medvedev had fired his long-serving Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin. Dmitry Medvedev shed light on the current situation as he spoke on three television channels on Friday. Even though President Medvedev’s popularity ratings are still high, he made it clear during his televised remarks that the ratings of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin are still higher, which makes him number one among the most popular politicians in Russia. Medvedev said that a politician should put his country’s needs ahead of his personal ambitions. He and Putin, he went on to say, represent one political force, there are no rifts in their tandem, that’s why, he said, they resolved to align their positions instead of “shoving each other”. As was announced at the United Russia congress, Medvedev will head the list of United Russia candidates at parliamentary elections, and Putin will be nominated to run for president from United Russia in March. The purpose of such a reshuffle is to ensure victory at both parliamentary and presidential elections. As for speculation that the outcome of the two votes is known, Dmitry Medvedev disagrees. "It’s up to the people to decide, he said. Any political leader can lose the election along with his party. History knows numerous examples of that. No one is guaranteed against failure. Whoever wins more public support will win the vote. It’s up to the people to select a candidate and thereby determine the outcome of the voting." As for the high-profile resignation of Alexei Kudrin, President Medvedev said that he told his finance minister to submit his resignation after he expressed disagreement with the government’s economic policies and spoke against high defense expenditures. According to Dmitry Medvedev, Kudrin put his signature as finance minister under a whole number of government agreements on military spending. He shouldn’t have signed them if he was against, the president said. But since he did sign them, why criticize them? It’s all about honesty and discipline, the president said. "Russia is not a parliamentary republic, the president said. It’s a presidential republic, with the government following the president’s policies. The dissenters must go. This is a tough line but I’ll stick to it. Whoever succeeds me in this post will do the same. As for Kudrin, he, probably, felt bored after serving as finance minister for so many years." Alexei Kudrin told President Medvedev that he didn’t see himself in the new government in February, when nothing was said about the forthcoming changes in United Russia’s election agenda. Kudrin made it clear that he saw no point in retaining his post, so his resignation did not come as something unexpected after all, the president said. When asked about the departure of Right Cause’s billionaire leader Mikhail Prokhorov, Dmitry Medvedev said that the Right Cause Party has been unlucky in their choice of a leader. A party is successful if led by a responsible leader. But no such leaders have registered with the opposition Right Cause yet. Igor Siletsky Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Dmitry Medvedev, Alexei Kudrin, mass media, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 October 03####New cold peace between Russia and the West?########Interview with Alexander Panov, former Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian FederationMr. Panov, thank you very much for joining us. So our question is – how do you see the prospects for Russian foreign policy in the mid-term perspective, so to say, suppose Mr. Putin wins the election. Many western analysts believe that it inevitably would lead to a new cold peace between Russia and the west. Just how accurate do you think this assessment is? First of all I think that there will be no changes, any substantial changes in the foreign policy of Russia. The foreign policy of Russia, as we see it for the last 10 years, is absolutely the same, I mean not the same as you expect every time the same steps of Russian leaders, but the same in the sense that the strategic goals of the Russian foreign policy are set and the political elite, the economic elite of Russia agree with these goals and principles and this foreign policy, the main idea of this foreign policy is to create favorable conditions for the Russian reemergence as an influential international power and also this foreign policy should create favorable conditions for Russia to solve its internal problems, especially economic and social ones. In this sense this policy which proved to be successful, I don’t think will be or should be changed in the nearest future, I am sure it will continue. As far as concrete steps to concrete situations are concerned, it of course will be formulated in accordance, first of al, with the strategic goals and also with the concrete situation which will require the Russian involvement or non-involvement, also of course according to the national interests of Russia, involvement in international affairs or playing a role as a major power in solving some conflicts or some incidents. So I expected that western observers and analytics may predict that under Putin the Russian foreign policy might be more – how to say – not tougher, but more resolute towards some steps which Russian leaders may judge as harmful to Russian interests. But every country does it if its national interests are under question or harmed, then the answer, especially from big countries, is quite strong and resolute, and there is not any doubt that in this sense the Russian foreign policy will be strong if Russian national interests are put under question. But I don’t foresee such situations in the coming months or even years, because Russia doesn’t pose any threat to anyone and especially to the international relations. Such minor frictions or incidents, they may occur, but it will not lead to any big problems between Russia and other states. Interestingly enough, my impression was that many analysts and observers in the west have been pretty much scared by Mr. Putin’s Munich speech, and I think they are still scared without giving much attention to what essentially he was saying in that speech. Do you really think it could be justified to see that speech as an indication of Mr. Putin’s anti-western sentiment? Not at all. The essence and substance of Putin’s speech in Munich was just to explain to Russian partners at the international arena what Russia would like to see in the international relations, and it was not a threat to anybody, but just to explain that yes, there are some redlines in the Russian foreign policy which might require the response, adequate response if Russian interests may be harmed. The same speech we can hear from the president of the United States many times or from many other leaders, and I think that those who try to judge such speeches or sayings of Russian leaders as something extraordinary and something that is against their interests, it is absolutely nonsense, and those analytics who are trying to explain it in such a way they simply themselves would like to see such situation in a way that the relationship between Russia and major other powers are spoiled or bad, because you can always find a scape goat to explain your own mistakes and in this sense many still are thinking with nostalgia about all this of cold war when it was absolutely clear that there is confrontation and the situation is clear, so we can use this confrontation to reinforce our efforts everywhere to pay more money for armaments, to unite our allies; well, it is a very simple philosophy of those from old days of cold war. Mr. Panov, what is your impression, how wide-spread is the sentiment in the expert and policy-maker community in the west? I mean is it just an impression that is created by the mass media, this fear, this guarded attention towards the prospects of Putin’s elections, or perhaps it is still something more complicated? I understand that there are still a lot of those who would like to see a weak Russia, and a weak Russian response to the international affairs, and for them Putin is a strong leader, with a strong vision, who will not hesitate to defend the national interests of Russia, that is all. They simply worry that he will be a partner with whom it will not be easy to deal with, just trying to gain benefits for them, without respecting interests of Russia, that is all. For those people Putin will not be the best partner, I should say so. So what is your forecast, do you think that these artificial or non-artificial concerns will be subsiding with time or perhaps they will be just worked up? I see that especially next year it will be quiet, because the president of the United States is facing elections, change of leadership will take place in China, in South Korea, in many other countries, so during this period main efforts will be and should be devoted to solve internal problems, not so much problems in foreign relations, so it will be some kind of a period of accommodation. Of course sometimes there is such a situation that new leaders would like to have a strong  position in foreign affairs to show that they are strong leaders, but I don’t expect that it will change much in our relations with the so-called west or east, I don’t predict any big changes. Mr. Panov, thank you very much! Yekaterina Kudashkina Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, foreign policy, Russian presidential election 2012, Interview, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 October 05####Russian PM Vladimir Putin to run for President in 2012########In Russia, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin says he has accepted a proposal to stand for president in March 2012. During an address to the ruling United Russia Party’s annual congress Mr. Putin and current president Dmitry Medvedev backed one another to switch roles.In Russia, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin says he has accepted a proposal to stand for president in March 2012. During an address to the ruling United Russia Party’s annual congress Mr. Putin and current president Dmitry Medvedev backed one another to switch roles. The announcements and speculations of which men should run for the top job did raise questions concerning what the switch would mean for the future of Russia. Matthew Rojansky, Deputy Director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment, Derek Norberg, Executive Director of the Russian American Pacific Partnership, and William Pomeranz, Deputy Director of the Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian Studies of the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, D.C., discuss the prospects for Vladimir Putin to become president. Rob Sachs, Jessica Jordan Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 October 06####Changes in Russian politics should be “evolutionary” - Putin########The changes in the Russian political and economic system will be “evolutionary”, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who is to run for presidency in 2012, said Thursday speaking at  the “Russia’s Calling!” investment forum. He agreed with the necessity of changes in the national economy and politics but stressed that they should be gradual.The changes in the Russian political and economic system will be “evolutionary”, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who is to run for presidency in 2012, said Thursday speaking at  the “Russia’s Calling!” investment forum. He agreed with the necessity of changes in the national economy and politics but stressed that they should be gradual. “We need a great Russia, not a great turmoil”, he said. Putin said that the government “will act very carefully, strengthening the basic foundations of Russia’s political system and developing them”. He noted that it is obvious that in order to make Russia attractive to foreign investors, it is necessary to minimize both economic and administrative risks. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 October 15####United Russia invites Prime Minister Putin to run########The United Russia Party has officially invited Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to run as the party’s candidate for the office of president according to a televised public statement broadcast to Russian citizens in connection with the upcoming December 4th Parliamentary Elections.The United Russia Party has officially invited Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to run as the party’s candidate for the office of president according to a televised public statement broadcast to Russian citizens in connection with the upcoming December 4th Parliamentary Elections. The United Russia Party currently has a majority in the Duma, the Lower House of Parliament, and call themselves a "Pro-Presidential Party." (IF) Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 October 15####Russia invites foreign observers to elections########Over 600 foreign observers and about half a million Rusian ones will watch the coming parliamentary and presidential elections in Russia . This was revealed by the head of the Central Election Commission Vladimir Churov. “We have already sent invitations to several organizations, of which Russia is a member, and sent them accreditation questionnaires,” he said.Over 600 foreign observers and about half a million Rusian ones will watch the coming parliamentary and presidential elections in Russia. This was revealed by the head of the Central Election Commission Vladimir Churov. “We have already sent invitations to several organizations, of which Russia is a member, and sent them accreditation questionnaires,” he said. “Four questionnaires are already being filled in.”  On December 4, 2011, Russians will vote for candidates to the Duma (the parliament’s lower house). The presidential elections are planned for March 4, 2012.  RIAN Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian parliamentary elections, Russian Parliamentary elections 2011, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 October 17####Medvedev backs ban on “nationalistic themes” at elections########Russia’s President Dmitry Medvedev has backed the idea of introducing a voluntarily moratorium on the use of “nationalistic themes” during the election campaigns. He stressed that if somebody deliberately provokes interethnic clashes, the government will react to such provocations in accordance with the law.Russia’s President Dmitry Medvedev has backed the idea of introducing a voluntarily moratorium on the use of “nationalistic themes” during the election campaigns. He stressed that if somebody deliberately provokes interethnic clashes, the government will react to such provocations in accordance with the law. Xenophobia is a serious problem not only in Russia but in many countries, Medvedev said. He said that the global economic crisis has complicated modern life and some people tend to shift all the blame on migrants.  At the same time people’s discontent is fair towards those migrants who don’t observe local laws and don’t respect local traditions, he added. Russia will hold parliamentary elections in December. The presidential one will be held in March of 2012.   (RIAN) Russia, migrants, xenophobia, Russian presidential election 2012, election to the State Duma 2011, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 October 25####Moscow wants unbiased election monitoring########Moscow hopes for an unbiased assessment of the 2011-2012 elections in Russia from foreign observers, in particular from the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR), the Russian Foreign Ministry’s special envoy Anvar Azimov told reporters on Tuesday.Moscow hopes for an unbiased assessment of the 2011-2012 elections in Russia from foreign observers, in particular from the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR), the Russian Foreign Ministry’s special envoy Anvar Azimov told reporters on Tuesday. More than 600 observers from various countries will come to Russia to supervise the upcoming parliamentary and presidential elections. They will be offered an opportunity to visit any regions they like. The observers are planning to prepare a single report. It’s important that this report be not politicized and contain unbiased recommendations that would enable Russia to really improve its election system, the diplomat said. (RIAN)  Russia, World, OSCE, Russian presidential election 2012, election to the State Duma 2011, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 12####Putin confirms presidency bid########Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin will be officially put forward by the ruling United Russia party as its candidate for the 2012 presidential elections at its November 27 session, a source in the party’s election committee has told reporters in Moscow.Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin will be officially put forward by the ruling United Russia party as its candidate for the 2012 presidential elections at its November 27 session, a source in the party’s election committee has told reporters in Moscow. Some 11,000 participants will attend the forum which will follow on from the 23-24 September session when incumbent President Medvedev agreed to head the party’s Duma election list. After that Medvedev put Putin forward as a presidential candidate. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 25####Russians to elect President on March 4th 2012########Russian will go to the polls to elect their President on March 4th 2012, in keeping with a decision to that end that the Russian Parliament’s upper house, the Council of Federation, made earlier today. The decision was taken unanimously.Russian will go to the polls to elect their President on March 4th 2012, in keeping with a decision to that end that the Russian Parliament’s upper house, the Council of Federation, made earlier today. The decision was taken unanimously. Under the Russian Constitution, the Federation Council is due to set the presidential election date within 100 days before the election, but no later than 90 days before the voting day. Once the presidential election day is made public, the election race gets off to an official start. Those wishing to stand for President are now free to launch their election campaign and start collecting signatures in their support. (TASS, IF) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 26####Presidential election race kicks off in Russia########The presidential election campaign has kicked off in Russia. The campaign is getting under way following the publication by the Rossiyskaya Gazeta daily of the Council of Federation decision that the election should be held on March 4th 2012. The Senators approved the document on Friday morning.The presidential election campaign has kicked off in Russia. The campaign is getting under way following the publication by the Rossiyskaya Gazeta daily of the Council of Federation decision that the election should be held on March 4th 2012. The Senators approved the document on Friday morning. Although the daily does not normally come off the press on Saturdays, this time it did, by way of exception. The presidential election is set not earlier than 100 days, and no later than 90 days, before voting day. Today, the Central Elections Commission is due to hold a meeting to approve the time-table for the preparation and holding of the election. The number of presidential candidates is due to be determined on December 25th. Russian presidential campaign gets off to official start A presidential campaign has got off to an official start in Russia now that the Rossiyskaya Gazeta daily has published the Council of Federation’s decision to hold the election on March 4th 2012. The ruling United Russia party will be the first to nominate their candidate during the party congress that’s due tomorrow. All presidential candidates will have been determined by December 25th. The current presidential campaign is the last that’s coincided with the ongoing parliamentary election campaign. In the future, presidential and parliamentary elections will be held in different years now that the Duma deputies’ tenure has been increased from 4 to 5 years, while that of Russian President, from 4 to 6 years. (TASS, Radio Liberty) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 26####Russian presidential campaign gets off to official start########A presidential campaign has got off to an official start in Russia now that the Rossiyskaya Gazeta daily has published the Council of Federation’s decision to hold the election on March 4th 2012. The ruling United Russia party will be the first to nominate their candidate during the party congress that’s due tomorrow.A presidential campaign has got off to an official start in Russia now that the Rossiyskaya Gazeta daily has published the Council of Federation’s decision to hold the election on March 4th 2012. The ruling United Russia party will be the first to nominate their candidate during the party congress that’s due tomorrow. All presidential candidates will have been determined by December 25th. The current presidential campaign is the last that’s coincided with the ongoing parliamentary election campaign. In the future, presidential and parliamentary elections will be held in different years now that the Duma deputies’ tenure has been increased from 4 to 5 years, while that of Russian President, from 4 to 6 years. (TASS, Radio Liberty) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 26####Presidential election campaign kicks off in Russia########In Russia, the Central Elections Commission has approved the time-table for the preparation and holding of presidential election. Yesterday, the Russian Parliament’s upper house, the Council of Federation, made a decision to set the election date for March 4th 2012, which has officially kick-started the presidential election race.In Russia, the Central Elections Commission has approved the time-table for the preparation and holding of presidential election. Yesterday, the Russian Parliament’s upper house, the Council of Federation, made a decision to set the election date for March 4th 2012, which has officially kick-started the presidential election race. Political parties are due to hold congresses to nominate their candidates. The first to hold this kind of congress will be the ruling United Russia party. The congress is due tomorrow, Sunday, November 27th, and United Russia will nominate their leader, Prime Minster Vladimir Putin for President. In March next year, Russians will elect their President for a period of six years, rather than for four years now. Presidential election race kicks off in Russia The presidential election campaign has kicked off in Russia. The campaign is getting under way following the publication by the Rossiyskaya Gazeta daily of the Council of Federation decision that the election should be held on March 4th 2012. The Senators approved the document on Friday morning. Although the daily does not normally come off the press on Saturdays, this time it did, by way of exception. The presidential election is set not earlier than 100 days, and no later than 90 days, before voting day. Today, the Central Elections Commission is due to hold a meeting to approve the time-table for the preparation and holding of the election. The number of presidential candidates is due to be determined on December 25th. Russian presidential campaign gets off to official start A presidential campaign has got off to an official start in Russia now that the Rossiyskaya Gazeta daily has published the Council of Federation’s decision to hold the election on March 4th 2012. The ruling United Russia party will be the first to nominate their candidate during the party congress that’s due tomorrow. All presidential candidates will have been determined by December 25th. The current presidential campaign is the last that’s coincided with the ongoing parliamentary election campaign. In the future, presidential and parliamentary elections will be held in different years now that the Duma deputies’ tenure has been increased from 4 to 5 years, while that of Russian President, from 4 to 6 years. (TASS, Radio Liberty) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 27####Campaigning for State Duma elections in full swing########With one week to go before the December 4 parliamentary polls in Russia, the election race is gaining pace. The seven political parties running for the State Duma, the lower house of parliament, have until next Saturday to win over voters. No campaigning will be allowed the day before the voting.With one week to go before the December 4 parliamentary polls in Russia, the election race is gaining pace. The seven political parties running for the State Duma, the lower house of parliament, have until next Saturday to win over voters. No campaigning will be allowed the day before the voting. Meanwhile, the upper parliamentary chamber, the Federation Council, has announced the date for next year’s presidential election. It will be held on March 4. Parties are nominating their candidates for presidency. The incumbent Prime Minister Vladimir Putin will stand for the top post from the United Russia party. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, election to the State Duma 2011, Russian Parliamentary elections 2011, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 27####United Russia confirms Putin as 2012 presidential candidate########Russia’s ruling United Russia party has officially nominated the country’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin as its candidate for the presidential post. Earlier this week the Federation Council approved March 4 as the date for the 2012 presidential elections, and thus marked the beginning of the election campaign.Russia’s ruling United Russia party has officially nominated the country’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin as its candidate for the presidential post. Earlier this week the Federation Council approved March 4 as the date for the 2012 presidential elections, and thus marked the beginning of the election campaign. Meanwhile, seven political parties are preparing to take part in the parliamentary elections scheduled next Sunday, December 4. (TASS) Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 27####United Russia congress expected to nominate Putin for presidency########The leadership of the United Russia party and the All-Russian People’s Front has recommended the party congress, meeting in Moscow on Sunday, to nominate Vladimir Putin as candidate for presidency from United Russia. The election will be held on March 4 three months after federal parliamentary elections, scheduled for December 4. (IFThe leadership of the United Russia party and the All-Russian People’s Front has recommended the party congress, meeting in Moscow on Sunday, to nominate Vladimir Putin as candidate for presidency from United Russia. The election will be held on March 4 three months after federal parliamentary elections, scheduled for December 4. (IF) Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 27####United Russia congress opens in Moscow########More than 1,000 journalists from Russia and abroad have gathered at the Luzhniki sports arena in Moscow to cover a congress of the country`s ruling United Russia party. The two-hour event is being broadcast live across the nation. Russia`s President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin have arrived to the congress together.More than 1,000 journalists from Russia and abroad have gathered at the Luzhniki sports arena in Moscow to cover a congress of the country`s ruling United Russia party. The two-hour event is being broadcast live across the nation. Russia`s President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin have arrived to the congress together. Today, United Russia is officially nominating Mr. Putin as its candidate for the 2012 presidential elections. Earlier this week the Federation Council approved March 4 as the date for the elections. The campaigning has already started. United Russia confirms Putin as 2012 presidential candidate  Russia’s ruling United Russia party has officially nominated the country’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin as its candidate for the presidential post. Earlier this week the Federation Council approved March 4 as the date for the 2012 presidential elections, and thus marked the beginning of the election campaign. Meanwhile, seven political parties are preparing to take part in the parliamentary elections scheduled next Sunday, December 4. (VoR, TASS) Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 27####Putin accepts presidential nomination########Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has accepted his nomination by the ruling United Russia party as its candidate in next year’s presidential elections. Speaking at the United Party congress in Moscow on Sunday,President Dmitry Medvedev called Putin “the most popular, experienced and successful politician in Russia.Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has accepted his nomination by the ruling United Russia party as its candidate in next year’s presidential elections. Speaking at the United Party congress in Moscow on Sunday,President Dmitry Medvedev called Putin “the most popular, experienced and successful politician in Russia.” Medvedev added that “most Russians trust Putin and pin their hopes on him.” Putin, for his part, pledged to do more to tackle social inequality and “protect people and the future of Russia.” “We must show more strength, efficiency and competitiveness in all sectors, something that should be Russia’s strategic priority in the next ten years,” Putin pointed out. United Russia congress opens in Moscow  More than 1,000 journalists from Russia and abroad have gathered at the Luzhniki sports arena in Moscow to cover a congress of the country`s ruling United Russia party. The two-hour event is being broadcast live across the nation. Russia`s President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin have arrived to the congress together. Today, United Russia is officially nominating Mr. Putin as its candidate for the 2012 presidential elections. Earlier this week the Federation Council approved March 4 as the date for the elections. The campaigning has already started. (VOR)   World, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 27####Putin officially nominated as presidential candidate########Prime Minister Vladimir Putin was officially nominated as a candidate for next year’s presidential elections in Russia in a decision that was made during the United Russia party congress in Moscow on Sunday.Prime Minister Vladimir Putin was officially nominated as a candidate for next year’s presidential elections in Russia in a decision that was made during the United Russia party congress in Moscow on Sunday. Putin’s candidacy was supported by all 614 delegates from United Russia and Putin’s All-Russia People's Front movement, Boris Gryzlov, head of the party’s Supreme Council, said earlier in the day. “United Russia” wants Putin as president  Russia’s most influential party “United Russia” has unanimously approved Vladimir Putin, who is currently the country’s prime minister, as its candidate for presidency. This happened at the party’s council in Moscow on Sunday. The voting was by secret ballot, but all the 614 people present voted for Mr. Putin. Vladimir Putin already was Russia’s president from 2000 till 2008.  The candidature of Mr. Putin has been suggested by Russia’s incumbent President Dmitry Medvedev, and Mr. Putin has agreed. In his turn, Dmitry Medvedev has agreed to become the prime minister if Mr. Putin becomes the president. Mr. Medvedev also heads “United Russia’s” list for elections to the State Duma (the parliament’s lower house), which will take place on December 4. The presidential elections will take place on March 4, 2012. “United Russia” was the country’s first party to name its candidate for presidency.  Putin accepts presidential nomination  Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has accepted his nomination by the ruling United Russia party as its candidate in next year’s presidential elections. Speaking at the United Party congress in Moscow on Sunday,President Dmitry Medvedev called Putin “the most popular, experienced and successful politician in Russia.” Medvedev added that “most Russians trust Putin and pin their hopes on him.” Putin, for his part, pledged to do more to tackle social inequality and “protect people and the future of Russia.” “We must show more strength, efficiency and competitiveness in all sectors, something that should be Russia’s strategic priority in the next ten years,” Putin pointed out. United Russia congress opens in Moscow  More than 1,000 journalists from Russia and abroad have gathered at the Luzhniki sports arena in Moscow to cover a congress of the country`s ruling United Russia party. The two-hour event is being broadcast live across the nation. Russia`s President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin have arrived to the congress together. Today, United Russia is officially nominating Mr. Putin as its candidate for the 2012 presidential elections. Earlier this week the Federation Council approved March 4 as the date for the elections. The campaigning has already started. (VOR) Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 27####“United Russia” wants Putin as president########Russia’s most influential party “United Russia” has unanimously approved Vladimir Putin, who is currently the country’s prime minister, as its candidate for presidency. This happened at the party’s council in Moscow on Sunday. The voting was by secret ballot, but all the 614 people present voted for Mr. Putin.Russia’s most influential party “United Russia” has unanimously approved Vladimir Putin, who is currently the country’s prime minister, as its candidate for presidency. This happened at the party’s council in Moscow on Sunday. The voting was by secret ballot, but all the 614 people present voted for Mr. Putin. Vladimir Putin already was Russia’s president from 2000 till 2008.  The candidature of Mr. Putin has been suggested by Russia’s incumbent President Dmitry Medvedev, and Mr. Putin has agreed. In his turn, Dmitry Medvedev has agreed to become the prime minister if Mr. Putin becomes the president. Mr. Medvedev also heads “United Russia’s” list for elections to the State Duma (the parliament’s lower house), which will take place on December 4. The presidential elections will take place on March 4, 2012. “United Russia” was the country’s first party to name its candidate for presidency.  (VoR)   Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 27####Putin shares his vision of a good president########A council of Russia’s most influential party “United Russia”, which took place in Moscow on Sunday, unanimously approved Vladimir Putin, who is currently the prime minister, as the party’s candidate for presidency. All the 614 participants of the council voted for him.A council of Russia’s most influential party “United Russia”, which took place in Moscow on Sunday, unanimously approved Vladimir Putin, who is currently the prime minister, as the party’s candidate for presidency. All the 614 participants of the council voted for him. Earlier, in a speech, Mr. Putin has promised to do his best for a flourishing Russia if he becomes the president.  “My motto is: care for people, and, by this, you’ll care for the country’s future,” he said.  He also promised to try to do away with social inequality and to make Russia’s economy “effective and competitive”. Mr. Putin wants to make some improvements in Russia’s political system, but to make them “carefully and very responsively”.  The authorities’ main task, he believes, is “to attract highly professional people, with a contemporary way of thinking, who are eager to serve Russia”. (VoR) Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 27####Only together, only consolidation########Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has officially been nominated as a candidate for next year’s presidential elections in Russia. The decision was made during the second stage of the United Russia party congress which wrapped up in Moscow on Sunday. The elections are scheduled for March 4, 2012.11,000 delegates from all across Russia took part in the congress. Most of them were young people, including students, workers, employees and entrepreneurs, something that is not accidental. President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin have repeatedly stressed the necessity of Russia’s economic modernization, a process that they said should involve the country’s younger generation.   The opening of the Congress was preceded by demonstration of video clips pertaining to the December 4 parliamentary elections in Russia. Both the video clips and delegates’ addresses were being broadcast at the press center which accommodated more than 1,000 journalists. September 24 saw the gathering’s first stage where President Dmitry Medvedev suggested that Vladimir Putin should be nominated as United Russia’s presidential candidate, a proposal that was accepted by Putin. Medvedev, for his part, signaled his readiness to head the would-be Russian government and United Russia’s party list during the December 4 State Duma elections. Sunday’s congress opened with a speech by eminent Russian filmmaker Stanislav Govorukhin who suggested that Vladimir Putin should be nominated as a presidential candidate. Govorukhin quoted renowned Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn, the Nobel-prizewinning author of the Gulag Archipelago, as saying that “young democracy needs strong power.” Also, Govorukhin cited great Russian poet Alexander Pushkin as saying that “the best and major upheavals in a country tend to take place without violent disturbances.” In conclusion, Govorukhin mentioned Russia’s prominent Tsarist-era reformer Pyotr Stolypin: "Our country shows a stable and sustained growth," Govorukhin says. "Step-by-step, it is peacefully moving toward what Stolypin hoped would be great Russia," Govorukhin says, praising “Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin”’s tremendous contribution to the implementation of this “clear and easy-to-understand purpose.” Putin’s  being nominated as a presidential candidate means that the country has made its choice concerning the future political course and that it is ready to adhere to its  course, President Medvedev told the United Russia party congress on Sunday: "We are finally and absolutely officially establishing our political strategy not for a short period, but for a long term," Medvedev says. "And we clearly declare our goals without deceiving anyone. We are also announcing those who we hope will contribute to the implementation of these goals when being Russian lawmakers, the Prime Minister and the President. They have been named, the program has been formulated and the parliamentary and presidential election days have been announced . Everything is absolutely clear. But it is people who will assess our proposals, and only electorate will make a final choice as far as these politicians are concerned. As for the politicians, they, of course, reserve the right to turn to citizens for support." During his speech, Medvedev specifically touched upon an array of pressing economic issues, not least the 2008 global financial crisis fallout which hit the US and eurozone countries especially hard. As for Russia, it avoided being drastically damaged by the crisis because it used “right measures”, Medvedev said: "The global economic meltdown’s repercussions are simply terrible," Medvedev says. "Our country sticks to a stable course, something that I can tell you is being felt during my meetings with leaders of other countries during various international forums. We have coped with the first wave of the crisis. If necessary, we will no doubt resolve the second one. We managed to preserve jobs with unemployment plunging to pre-crisis level. 2011 will see the lowest inflation rate in Russia since 1989," Medvedev goes on to say. "All this is the result of real work," Medvedev says, separately lauding an increase in bank deposits which reflects people’s trust in the Russian economy and their readiness to make cash injections. "Implementing political projects is another aspect which includes the creation of an accessible and transparent government that could use a variety of ways of communication with civil society. The issue comes to the fore as more citizens start signaling their desire to take control of power and contain corruption. This is why the new government will make decisions on a transparent basis and will seek support of ordinary people," Medvedev says. "Decentralizing the management remains another pressing issue," Medvedev said, likening the budgetary equalization process to a one-size-fits-all approach. "Russia is a vast country which has regions with different resource bases and industrial development level. This is why speaking of the efficiency of the policy of the budgetary equalization is irrelevant," Medvedev warns, adding that such a policy must be scrapped. In any case, it is necessary to tread carefully on the matter, he underscores: "We should fully finance federal mandates, including the army, police plus an array of social projects and many others," Medvedev says. "We need to find an optimal balance between federal and regional expenses which could comply with the present tasks. I’m sure that we will soon resolve this issue, and those money that is being earned by people and enterprises will stay in regions." "Immensity is a national feature of Russian citizens who believe in their country’s historic mission. It is why we should work on enhancing the country’s economic and cultural space," Medvedev stressed. Vladimir Putin, for his part, said that the next few years will see a unified cycle of modernization of power in Russia: "A hugely important stage of Russia’s overhaul is over," Putin says, touting the creation of a basis for a stable and sustained development of the country. "Right now, we should use this basis to build strong, rich and wealthy Russia,  a Russia of the 21st century," Putin adds. His words were followed by all the delegates chanting Russia-glorifying slogans. In his speech, Putin said, in particular, that mass middle class should become a social majority in Russia. Another important task is to turn education and social training into a main social elevator of the society which Putin said should also become a main criterion for success: "More efforts are needed to help a person use its talent and professionalism to make a career," Putin says, referring to civil servants, businessmen and public activists. Separately, he focused on Russia’s foreign policy, urging the country’s partners to jointly address a host of threats: "We are open to partnership and dialogue with all our friends and all countries. Such a dialogue is only possible on an equal basis, and we don’t want anyone to impose models on us and tell us what to do," Putin says. "All our foreign partners should realize the fact that a democratic country, Russia remains a reliable and predictable partner. It is open to a dialogue but up in arms against attempts to impose outside will," Putin warns. He also dwelt on the Eurasian Union which he said could bring together practically all CIS countries, including Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. This organization is expected to imitate the European Union in terms of structure. The goal is to create a single economic, political, customs and cultural space which Putin said was in line with demands of time. The Eurasian Union will contribute to effective cooperation between not only its member countries but those of the entire continent as well. As for prospects of further work, the main thing is to outline priorities pertaining to the current stage of Russia’s development. The United Russia party’s experience it has accumulated over the last couple of years enables it to claim that it will cope with this task, Putin said. “We will not promise the Moon, but we know for sure that if we work hard, our country will succeed,” he added. Meanwhile, delegates described as a “historic event” Vladimir Putin’s being unanimously nominated as a presidential candidate for the 2012 presidential poll. Anna Forostenko Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 28####China looks to positive trends in relations following Russia’s presidential election########China hopes that positive trends in Russian-Chinese relations will remain after Russia’s presidential election next year, said the Chinese Foreign Ministry official spokesman Hong Lei. He voiced hope that the Chinese-Russian relations of comprehensive strategic partnership would continue advancing along the path of healthy development in a positive direction.China hopes that positive trends in Russian-Chinese relations will remain after Russia’s presidential election next year, said the Chinese Foreign Ministry official spokesman Hong Lei. He voiced hope that the Chinese-Russian relations of comprehensive strategic partnership would continue advancing along the path of healthy development in a positive direction. That is the way Hong Lei commented on Vladimir Putin’s nomination for a presidential candidate on the United Russia party ticket to run in the election of March 4th 2012. (RIAN) Russia, World, Russian-Chinese relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 28####Putin calls for strong Russia########Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin was nominated to run for presidency in the March 4 presidential elections at the United Russia Congress in Moscow on Sunday. As they comment on Putin’s program, political analysts emphasize continuity of power and modernization in all spheres of public life.Speaking at the United Russia forum on Sunday, Vladimir Putin said that after the extensive renovation and restoration stage in the development of the country, the party’s major concern should be leading the country to prosperity in the 21st century. All sections of society should take part in building a strong Russia, Putin said. Representatives of the business community describe Putin’s program as predictable and leading to stability. Businessman David Yakobashvili comments: "Stability is crucial for business. Russia’s business community is fully aware of Putin’s business tactics. There will be nothing new for us. We only need changes to the legislation in order to improve the situation in the country and encourage business activity." The United Russia agenda pursues the purpose of building an economy which will be less dependent on raw materials and provides for investing in high-tech industries. Anatoly Aksakov is a member of the parliamentary finance committee: "Funds from the raw materials sector should be re-directed to the processing industry, particularly where the value added is fairly high because of innovation technology." Analysts are concerned about Russia’s foreign policy given that Vladimir Putin is known for his tough policies on the international scene and that Russia’s relations with the US are facing a turn for the worse following the recent failure to ensure Russia’s participation in the European missile defense program. Analyst Alexei Makarkin has this to say: "Russia’s foreign policies might face serious problems now that the “reset” achieved during Medvedev’s presidency is under threat after the failed missile defense talks. This issue is of particular significance for Russia." However, experts say that Russia’s foreign policies are unlikely to undergo drastic changes. A statement to this effect was made by Vladimir Putin who said that Russia is open for partnership and dialogue with all countries but won’t tolerate anyone dictating to it what to do or trying to make decisions for it. Putin made it clear that Russia is a democratic country and a reliable, predictable partner easy to deal with. But it won’t have anyone forcing their decisions upon it, the prime minister said. Polina Chernitsa, Alexander Vatutin Russia, Opinion & Analysis, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 29####“I go, but reforms stay” - Medvedev########At his meeting with businesspeople in the Russian city of Ekaterinburg, President Dmitry Medvedev assured the audience that the reforms he has started will continue even after he leaves his post.At his meeting with businesspeople in the Russian city of Ekaterinburg, President Dmitry Medvedev assured the audience that the reforms he has started will continue even after he leaves his post. He criticized those who don’t believe in this for their “apocalyptical sentiments”. The president also added that, as far as he can judge, now, there are quite good conditions in Russia for small businesses to develop. The presidential elections in Russia will take place on March 4, 2012. Earlier, at a meeting of the “United Russia” party, Dmitry Medvedev suggested making Vladimir Putin, who is currently Russia’s Prime Minister, the party’s candidate for the presidency. “United Russia” is the country’s most influential party, which supports both Mr. Putin and Mr. Medvedev. Dmitry Medvedev also agreed to become the prime minister if Mr. Putin becomes the president. (RIAN) Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian economy, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 November 30####Free media channels for Russian presidential candidates########The Russian Central Elections Commission has decided which government-run media channels presidential candidates will be able to use free of charge in the race preceding the March 4th presidential elections in Russia. These are the federal TV and radio channels, including the Voice of Russia radio company which broadcasts to foreign countries. Several newspapers are also on the list.The Russian Central Elections Commission has decided which government-run media channels presidential candidates will be able to use free of charge in the race preceding the March 4th presidential elections in Russia. These are the federal TV and radio channels, including the Voice of Russia radio company which broadcasts to foreign countries. Several newspapers are also on the list. Last Sunday, Moscow saw a congress of the United Russia party nominating their presidential candidate, the current Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. United Russia is one of the first political parties to have nominated their candidate. The start of the presidential race has coincided with the end of the election campaign for the Russian Parliament’s lower house, the State Duma. The Duma election is due next Sunday, December 4th. (TASS)   Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian parliamentary elections, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 06####Russians expect Putin to become president - Peskov########Despite a drop in support for the ruling United Russia party in Sunday’s parliamentary elections, its leader Vladimir Putin has no reason to worry about his chances in the upcoming presidential election. The statement came from Mr. Putin’s press secretary Dmitry Peskov in an interview with the BBC.Despite a drop in support for the ruling United Russia party in Sunday’s parliamentary elections, its leader Vladimir Putin has no reason to worry about his chances in the upcoming presidential election. The statement came from Mr. Putin’s press secretary Dmitry Peskov in an interview with the BBC. He said that United Russia had secured a parliamentary majority despite the fact that its rule had been complicated by the global economic and financial crisis. Nearly all European parties have lost 80% of their popularity. As for Vladimir Putin, his rating is not directly linked with United Russia since he has always been regarded as an independent politician, Peskov said. He added that many Russians expected Putin to become president. (BBC) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 07####Putin submits his presidential bid to CEC########Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin who is also the leader of the ruling United Russia party has submitted documents to the Central Elections Commission (CEC) to be officially registered as a candidate in the March 2012 presidential polls, news reports said on Wednesday.Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin who is also the leader of the ruling United Russia party has submitted documents to the Central Elections Commission (CEC) to be officially registered as a candidate in the March 2012 presidential polls, news reports said on Wednesday. In a unanimous decision, United Russia nominated Putin as its presidential candidate during a party congress in Moscow on November 27. Earlier, five self-proclaimed presidential candidates submitted the relevant documents to the Central Elections Commission. The elections are scheduled for March 4. (IF,RBK) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 08####Putin's campaign staff based on All-Russian People's Front########Vladimir Putin’s presidential campaign staff will be based on the All-Russian People’s Front. Speaking at a session of its Federal Coordinative Committee this morning, Mr. Putin stressed that the front was a non-partisan movement uniting people with different political views but sharing common values and love for Russia.Vladimir Putin’s presidential campaign staff will be based on the All-Russian People’s Front. Speaking at a session of its Federal Coordinative Committee this morning, Mr. Putin stressed that the front was a non-partisan movement uniting people with different political views but sharing common values and love for Russia. The prime minister offered the well-known film director Stanislav Govorukhin to be his campaign chief of staff. He said that the faction of the United Russia party in the newly State Duma had been renewed by almost a half as a result of the December 4 parliamentary polls. Representatives of the All-Russian People’s Front will account for one-quarter of the faction.   (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, All-Russia People's Front, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 08####Rallies are democratic if permitted – Putin########Well-known Russian actor and film director Stanislav Govorukhin will head the campaign headquarters of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who intends to run for presidency.Well-known Russian actor and film director Stanislav Govorukhin will head the campaign headquarters of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who intends to run for presidency. However, the headquarters will not be formed on the basis of “United Russia,” the country’s most influential party which supports Mr. Putin, but on the basis of the so-called “People’s Front,” which also consists of Mr. Putin’s supporters but positions itself not as a political, but as a public organization. The decisions to create Mr. Putin’s campaign headquarters and to appoint Mr. Govorukhin as head were taken at a recent meeting of the “People’s Front’s” coordination council in Moscow. Vladimir Putin himself presided at this meeting. At the same time, Mr. Putin has not changed his mind – he will run for presidency as “United Russia’s,” not the “People’s Front’s,” candidate. He explains his decision by the fact that since the “People’s Front” is not a political party, it brings together people of various political convictions. Of course, the meeting could not help but discuss the situation in Russia following the recent parliamentary elections, with special reference to the opposition rallies whose participants claimed that the ruling party had falsified the elections’ results. “In a democratic society, a dialogue between the authorities and the opposition is a must,” Mr. Putin said. “People must have the right to stage rallies. No one should dare deprive the opposition of the right to express its views, provided, of course, that the opposition itself doesn’t violate any laws while expressing these views,” Mr. Putin said. “If it does, law enforcement bodies must restore the order – again, of course, using legal means. True, some opposition leaders sometimes provoke people into rallies because they pursue some unfair aims of their own – but this is not the reason not to let honest members of the opposition express their views openly.” President Dmitry Medvedev, who is currently in Prague, also said at a press conference there that in a democratic country, rallies must not be prohibited, but they must be held in places sanctioned by the authorities, and their participants must not violate any laws. But let us return to Vladimir Putin’s speech: “We have information,” he said, “that sometimes, opposition rallies in Russia are incited by certain political forces from abroad. Recently, US State Secretary Hilary Clinton called the parliamentary elections in Russia “unfair and unjust.” Some opposition leaders took it as a signal for rallies. We have information that the US State Department actively supported them.” “If some Western politicians are eager to help Russia with their money, they can send us humanitarian aid,” Vladimir Putin said. “We’ll be grateful to them. But if they try to sponsor political rallies in our country, that is impermissible.” Svetlana Andreyeva Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian parliamentary elections, rallies For Fair Elections, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 10####A Just Russia to nominate presidential candidate########A Just Russia party is holding a congress in Moscow to nominate the party’s presidential candidate to run in the March 4th presidential election. The party will most likely nominate its leader, the former speaker of the Russian Parliament’s upper house, Sergei Mironov.A Just Russia party is holding a congress in Moscow to nominate the party’s presidential candidate to run in the March 4th presidential election. The party will most likely nominate its leader, the former speaker of the Russian Parliament’s upper house, Sergei Mironov. Yesterday, Mironov wrote on his site that he is prepared to run for President. The congress is also due to sum up the results of the Duma elections, held on the 4th of this month. A Just Russia has won 64 seats in the State Duma as against 38 seats it had in the previous Duma. Earlier, the ruling United Russia party nominated Prime Minister Vladimir Putin for President. (RIAN) Russia, Just Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Just Russia party, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 10####A Just Russia to nominate Sergei Mironov for President########A Just Russia party has moved to approve the nomination of its leader Sergei Mironov as its presidential candidate. This came in a statement to reporters earlier this Saturday by the party chairman Nikolai Levichev.A Just Russia party has moved to approve the nomination of its leader Sergei Mironov as its presidential candidate. This came in a statement to reporters earlier this Saturday by the party chairman Nikolai Levichev. The nomination of the party's presidential candidate features prominently on the agenda of the congress that A Just Russia is holding in Moscow today. The congress is also focusing on the results of the recent election to the State Duma. A Just Russia will now have 64 seats in the Russian Parliament’s lower house as against 38 in the previous Duma. Earlier, the ruling United Russia party nominated their presidential candidate, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. The presidential election in Russia has been scheduled for March 4th next year. (RIAN) Russia, Just Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Just Russia party, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 10####Mironov for president########The center-left A Just Russia party has nominated its leader Sergei Mironov as a candidate for the presidency in the March 4, 2012 elections. Mironov said that, if elected, he would offer the premiership to Oksana Dmitrieva who heads the party’s St. Petersburg branch. (RIAN)The center-left A Just Russia party has nominated its leader Sergei Mironov as a candidate for the presidency in the March 4, 2012 elections. Mironov said that, if elected, he would offer the premiership to Oksana Dmitrieva who heads the party’s St. Petersburg branch. (RIAN) Russia, Just Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Just Russia party, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 11####Russia’s presidential race kicks off########Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin may be registered as a 2012 presidential candidate on the first registration day, December, 14, the country’s Central Election Commission report. This week PM completed the first stage of the registration process and may now open a campaign bank account whose assets are no to exceed 400 mln rubles.Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin may be registered as a 2012 presidential candidate on the first registration day, December, 14, the country’s Central Election Commission report. This week PM completed the first stage of the registration process and may now open a campaign bank account whose assets are no to exceed 400 mln rubles. Other parties are also joining the presidential race. A Just Russia put forward its leader Sergei Mironov, while the Lib Dems will select their candidate on December 13 and the Communists on December 17. (IF) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 12####Pro-government rally under way in Moscow########A rally of supporters of the pro-government Russian party “United Russia”, which won the majority of seats at the recent parliamentary elections, is currently under way in Moscow. According to estimates, 25 thousand people are present.A rally of supporters of the pro-government Russian party “United Russia”, which won the majority of seats at the recent parliamentary elections, is currently under way in Moscow. According to estimates, 25 thousand people are present. Besides the party’s members, representatives of the so-called “People’s Front”, a public organization which supports “United Russia”, and representatives of such youth organizations as “Molodaya Gvardiya” (“The Young Guard”), “Rossiya Molodaya” (“Young Russia”), “Nashi” (“Ours”) and “Stal” (“Steel”) are taking part. On Saturday, mass rallies of opponents of Russia’s current government and the pro-government “United Russia” took place in Moscow and several other Russian cities. Its participants claimed that the results of the parliamentary elections had been falsified. Although President Medvedev believes that his opponents are exaggerating the scale of violations in counting the elections’ outcome, he has ordered a thorough investigation and promised to punish those who would be found guilty. (IF, RIAN) Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian parliamentary elections, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 12####Pro-government rally took place in Moscow########A rally of supporters of the pro-government Russian party “United Russia”, which won the majority of seats at the recent parliamentary elections, took place in Moscow on Monday. According to estimates, 25 thousand people were present.A rally of supporters of the pro-government Russian party “United Russia”, which won the majority of seats at the recent parliamentary elections, took place in Moscow on Monday. According to estimates, 25 thousand people were present. Besides the party’s members, representatives of the so-called “People’s Front”, a public organization which supports “United Russia”, and representatives of such youth organizations as “Molodaya Gvardiya” (“The Young Guard”), “Rossiya Molodaya” (“Young Russia”), “Nashi” (“Ours”) and “Stal” (“Steel”) took part. The rally’s participants approved the outcome of the parliamentary elections and called on the people to support Prime Minister Vladimir Putin who intends to run for presidency in March. On Saturday, mass rallies of opponents of Russia’s current government and the pro-government “United Russia” took place in Moscow and several other Russian cities. Its participants claimed that the results of the parliamentary elections had been falsified. Although President Medvedev believes that his opponents are exaggerating the scale of violations in counting the elections’ outcome, he has ordered a thorough investigation and promised to punish those who would be found guilty. (IF, RIAN) Medvedev promises to check alleged election fraud reports Russian President Dmitry Medvedev issued a Facebook post on Sunday evening, commenting on a mass rally on Bolotnaya Square which took place the previous day, with some 50,000 people protesting against alleged fraud at the December 4 parliamentary elections. “I do not agree with either the slogans or statements heard at the rallies," Mr. Medvedev wrote. He said, however, that he had issued instructions for all reports on the conduct of the polls to be checked. Official governmental feedback on the rally came only the other day. Remarkably, Dmitry Medvedev used Facebook to express his opinion: social networking sites have been actively used by the opposition to inspire people to attend protests. On his Facebook page, Medvedev wrote: “Under the Constitution, Russian citizens have the right to assemble and freely express their opinion. They did so yesterday, and I am glad that everything went peacefully. I do not agree with either the slogans or statements heard at the rallies. Nevertheless, I`ve instructed an inquiry into all violations reported during the vote”. More than 10,000 comments have appeared under his post, most criticizing Mr. Medvedev`s response as “too restrained”. But political analyst Grigory Trofimchuk believes that this is what a president’s reaction should be like: "This is a normal reaction. All violations must be checked, in a very thorough way. But it does mean that demands set by the opposition were heeded. It means that the system must work effectively both prior to elections and after them. As a country and as members of a civil society, we have approached the moment when we are really expected to pay attention to every violation reported during the vote. I think that the Central Election Commission is now going this way." The chairman of the CEC Vladimir Churov commented on Dmitry Medvedev`s words. In an interview with Euronews, Churov expressed his reaction to opposition rallies and numerous video footages featuring violations at polling stations across the country, and said he won`t step down: "There is not the slightest reason to demand this. As far as I know, only a rally in Moscow brought together tens of thousands of protesters. There is absolute democracy in Russia, and people are allowed to freely express their discontent. The main conclusion I`ve made is that our police work much better than their colleagues in New York. As far as the elections are concerned, they were organized well. The total number of reported violations stands at less than 1% all across the country. On Thursday President Medvedev instructed us to check all violation video footages. The number we have now is above 70. After we analyze all of them, we will present our conclusions to the public and the media, both in Russia and abroad." Dmitry Medvedev`s post on Facebook has been by far the only official reaction of the authorities to mass rallies across Russia. On Monday, when Russia marks the Constitution Day, the United Russia party is holding a rally on Manezhnaya Square in the heart of Moscow, with up to 30,000 supporters expected to join. Mamonov Roman Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian parliamentary elections, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 12####Prokhorov to run for President########The Russian billionaire and former leader of the Right Cause party Mikhail Prokhorov has announced his decision to run for President in elections in March. The only registered candidate so far is Vladimir Putin. (RIAN)The Russian billionaire and former leader of the Right Cause party Mikhail Prokhorov has announced his decision to run for President in elections in March. The only registered candidate so far is Vladimir Putin. (RIAN) Russia, Mikhail Prokhorov, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 13####A Just Russia leader files for presidential bid########The leader of A Just Russia, Sergei Mironov, has submitted the required documents to the Central Elections Commission to be registered as a candidate in the March 4th 2012 presidential elections. The first to file papers for presidential bid on December 7th was the United Russia party leader, Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin.The leader of A Just Russia, Sergei Mironov, has submitted the required documents to the Central Elections Commission to be registered as a candidate in the March 4th 2012 presidential elections. The first to file papers for presidential bid on December 7th was the United Russia party leader, Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. A Just Russia polled more than 13% of the votes in the Duma election of December 4th in a major improvement on its result of four years ago. The party will now prove the third-largest in the Russian Parliament. (TASS, IF) Russia, Just Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Just Russia party, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 13####Zhirinovsky to run for presidency in 2012########The leader of the Russian Liberal-Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky has been officially registered as a presidential candidate during his party`s session in Moscow on Tuesday. 169 delegates cast their votes to support Zhirinovsky`s candidacy, while 9 others voted against him. Vladimir Zhirinovsky has always run for the president except in 2004.The leader of the Russian Liberal-Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky has been officially registered as a presidential candidate during his party`s session in Moscow on Tuesday. 169 delegates cast their votes to support Zhirinovsky`s candidacy, while 9 others voted against him. Vladimir Zhirinovsky has always run for the president except in 2004. In 2008, he came third with 9.35% of the votes cast in his favor. (Interfax, TASS) Russia, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 14####Presidential candidate registration starts in Russia########A period of presidential candidate registration to run in the March 4th election has kicked off in Russia, says the Central Elections Commission in a statement. The first to submit his papers was Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, nominated by the United Russia party congress on November 27th.A period of presidential candidate registration to run in the March 4th election has kicked off in Russia, says the Central Elections Commission in a statement. The first to submit his papers was Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, nominated by the United Russia party congress on November 27th. A Just Russia and the Liberal Democratic Party have also nominated their candidates, Sergei Mironov and Vladimir Zhirinovsky respectively. The Communists Party and the Yabloko party are due to hold their congresses on the 20th of this month. The former leader of the Right Cause party, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, has also said he will run for president. The exact number of candidates is due to become known when the registration period draws to a close on January 28th . (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 14####Presidential candidate registration under way in Russia########A period of presidential candidate registration to run in the March 4th election has kicked off in Russia. The first to submit his papers was Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, nominated by the United Russia party congress on November 27th.A period of presidential candidate registration to run in the March 4th election has kicked off in Russia. The first to submit his papers was Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, nominated by the United Russia party congress on November 27th . The leaders of A Just Russia, the Liberal Democratic Party, the Communist Party and the Yabloko party, and billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov will also run for President. An initiative group of railway men has nominated Irkutsk region Governor Dmitry Mezentsev as an independent candidate. To get registered, all independents are due to collect two million signatures of their supporters and submit those to the Central Elections Commission until January 18th. The exact number of presidential candidates will become known on January 28th . (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 14####Putin applies to run for president########The leader of the United Russia party, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has become the first presidential hopeful to have lodged a formal application to run for the top Kremlin job. The Central Electoral Commission now has ten days in which to register him or reject his application.The leader of the United Russia party, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has become the first presidential hopeful to have lodged a formal application to run for the top Kremlin job. The Central Electoral Commission now has ten days in which to register him or reject his application. Putin has already passed vetting and opened a bank account for accumulating campaign donations. The elections are scheduled for the 4th of March. Two more candidates are forthcoming, one from Just Russia, and the other, from the Liberal Democrats. (TASS)   Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 15####Putin urges all to vote in presidential election########“I want to address those who are ready to vote for me as the presidential candidate. You should not follow the wrong logic by thinking that we could vote for him, but everyone is going to do this anyway, and we need to go shopping or go to the country.“I want to address those who are ready to vote for me as the presidential candidate. You should not follow the wrong logic by thinking that we could vote for him, but everyone is going to do this anyway, and we need to go shopping or go to the country. No one can decide anything, but you”, Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin told this in the “Conversation with Putin” show. “You are the ones who have to decide on who will be running foreign policy and representing our country abroad, who will be ensuring the country’s security, who will be solving social problems, who will be developing the economy. No one, but you”, Putin added.    Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Putin`s annual Q&A session, Putin's Q&A session 2011, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 15####Russia should be free of foreign influence - Putin########Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin says if he becomes President he will try to strengthen the stability of the political system and free the country of the influence from abroad.Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin says if he becomes President he will try to strengthen the stability of the political system and free the country of the influence from abroad. Answering citizens’ questions live, he stressed the need for a sustainable and secure system that would be exempt from the influence of those who want to meddle in Russian internal affairs. “These attempts should be immediately suppressed”, Putin says. He urged democracy in the country to be widened so that people in Moscow and other regions would feel connected with the authorities. Besides, Putin pointed out that the country’s economy should be renovated and modernized. Prime Minister Putin said that the social sphere should also be developed, so that no one feels abandoned by the government. RIAN Russia, World, Putin's Q&A session, Russian presidential election 2012, Putin's Q&A session 2011, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 15####Putin deems Prokhorov as good rival########“Mikhail Prokhorov will make a good rival to compete with in the presidential race, - Vladimir Putin said during his Q&A session on Thursday, - but I wouldn’t wish him success because I’m running for presidency too”, Putin said smiling.“Mikhail Prokhorov will make a good rival to compete with in the presidential race, - Vladimir Putin said during his Q&A session on Thursday, - but I wouldn’t wish him success because I’m running for presidency too”, Putin said smiling. As a citizen of Russia, Prokhorov has the right to take part in presidential elections, the Russian prime minister said. A few months ago, Prokhorov made an attempt to head the Right Cause Party but failed. Nevertheless, Mikhail Prokhorov is not giving up determined to use the election race to push the agenda that he finds important for Russia, Putin went on to say. Like any other eligible individual, Prokhorov is acting within the bounds of the Russian Constitution and the Russian law, Putin said. RIA Novosti Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Putin`s annual Q&A session, Putin's Q&A session 2011, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 15####Putin lists Russia’s achievements########Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who intends to run for presidency, is currently answering people’s questions in a live TV and radio broadcast. The presidential elections will take place on March 4, 2012.Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who intends to run for presidency, is currently answering people’s questions in a live TV and radio broadcast. The presidential elections will take place on March 4, 2012. Mr. Putin says that if he becomes President, his policy will be aimed, first of all, at perfecting the country’s political system, modernizing the economy and developing the social sphere. “Many problems still have to be solved in Russia,” Vladimir Putin said, “but, on the other hand, much has already been done. People’s wages and salaries have increased, and, now, less people in Russia live beyond the poverty line. Inflation has decreased. Unemployment has decreased. Currently, Russia has no state debts. Russia’s gold and currency reserves are the world’s third biggest. It is also evident that Russia’s position on the world’s political scene has strengthened.” (TASS) Russia, Putin's Q&A session, Russian presidential election 2012, Putin`s annual Q&A session, Putin's Q&A session 2011, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 15####Putin will step down if public support wanes########Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who is running for presidency in the March 2012 elections, said during his call-in show on Thursday that he would leave his post at once if he no longer felt support from the Russian public. RIA NovostiPrime Minister Vladimir Putin, who is running for presidency in the March 2012 elections, said during his call-in show on Thursday that he would leave his post at once if he no longer felt support from the Russian public. RIA Novosti Russia, Putin's Q&A session, Russian presidential election 2012, Putin`s annual Q&A session, Putin's Q&A session 2011, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 16####Russian tycoon to run for president########Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, who had earlier declared his intention to run for the presidency in the March 4Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, who had earlier declared his intention to run for the presidency in the March 4 vote, has submitted all pertinent documents to the Central Election Commission, which now has five days to check them up. To officially register as a candidate, Prokhorov, like all other self-appointed candidates, needs to collect 2 million signatures of his supporters and submit them to the CEC before 6 pm January 18. (Rossiya 24) Russia, Mikhail Prokhorov, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 17####Only government of national unity could end Russia’s plight – Zyuganov########Only a government of national unity, formed by the Communists, could end Russia’s current plight, the Russian Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov has told a party congress taking place in a town in the Moscow region.Only a government of national unity, formed by the Communists, could end Russia’s current plight, the Russian Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov has told a party congress taking place in a town in the Moscow region. He said that if the Communist Party came to power, they would form a government of national unity to restore national security by making a triple effort, namely by enhancing the role of the United Nations and limiting NATO influence; speeding up reintegration of the countries that formed part of the USSR; and by strengthening Russia’s defence capacity. Gennady Zyuganov said that the Communists would also nationalize raw material industries, as well as a number of other industries. The Communist Party sees free education and medical services as their social priorities. Today, the Communist Party of the Russian Federation will nominate its candidate for the March 4th presidential election in Russia. (IF) Russia, Communist Party, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 17####Communist leader Zyuganov to run for president########Russia’s Communist party members have unanimously put forward their leader Gennady Zyuganov to run for president on March 4, 2012.Russia’s Communist party members have unanimously put forward their leader Gennady Zyuganov to run for president on March 4, 2012. Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin was the first to have been registered as a candidate fon November 27. A Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov and the head of the Lib Dems Vladimir Zhirnovsky are also in the race. Their rival is Russian tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov whose assets are worth about 18 bln dollars. Russia’s Election Commission has also received  applications from independent candidates. RIAN Russia, Communist Party, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 17####Medvedev urges United Russia to rally behind Putin########President Medvedev believes the governing United Russia party must do everything in its power to ensure a convincing victory by Vladimir Putin in the next presidential elections in March.With Putin at the helm, the country can look forward to an era of continuity, political stability and speedy social, economic and technological modernization. Appearing before United Russia activists in a retreat outside Moscow Saturday, the President also said that only sharing risks with the Russian people can convince the electorate that the party is a potent force, rather than merely a bureaucratic or career enhancing machine. (IF) Russia, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 18####Prokhorov's supporters registered by Russian Central Elections Commission########The Central Elections Commission has registered a group of voters who will support Russian oligarch Mikhail Prokhorov’s self-proclaimed presidential bid, news reports said on Sunday.The Central Elections Commission has registered a group of voters who will support Russian oligarch Mikhail Prokhorov’s self-proclaimed presidential bid, news reports said on Sunday. Other independent presidential candidates include former Vladivostok Mayor Viktor Cherepkov and Irkutsk Region Governor Dmitry Mezentsev which are to submit at least 2 million signatures to the Central Elections Commission by January 18. Earlier, the Central Elections Commission said “No” to the registration of those backing the presidential bid of writer Eduard Limonov and Colonel-General Leonid Ivashov because of procedural violations. Earlier this month, confirming their bid for presidency were United Russia party leader Vladimir Putin, A Just Russia party leader Sergei Mironov and Liberal Democratic party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky. The presidential elections in Russia are scheduled for March 4, 2012. (TASS, Interfax) Russia, Mikhail Prokhorov, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 18####Yabloko puts forward its 2012 candidate########Russia’s Yabloko opposition party has put forward its founder Grigory Yavlinsky to run for president on March 4, 2012. His rivals are PM Vladimir Putin from the ruling United Russia, Sergei Mirionov from A Just Russia, Gennady Zyuganov from the Communists and Lib Dems’ Vladimir Zhirinovsky. Among independent candidates is tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov. (TASS, IFRussia’s Yabloko opposition party has put forward its founder Grigory Yavlinsky to run for president on March 4, 2012. His rivals are PM Vladimir Putin from the ruling United Russia, Sergei Mirionov from A Just Russia, Gennady Zyuganov from the Communists and Lib Dems’ Vladimir Zhirinovsky. Among independent candidates is tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov. (TASS, IF) Russia, Yabloko, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 19####Zyuganov files for presidential candidate registration########The Russian Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov has filed documents to the Central Elections Commission to get registered as a presidential candidate. The Commission is due to approve the documents within five days.Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, nominated by the United Russia Party; Sergei Mironov, the leader of and nominee by A Just Russia Party; and Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal Democratic Party have already gone through the registration procedure. Gennady Zyuganov was nominated by the Communist Party congress on December 17th . He has already run for president four times. Russia’s next presidential election is due on March 4th 2012. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 19####“Patriots of Russia” to support Putin########The Patriots of Russia party has decided to vote for Prime Minister, the United Russia party leader, Vladimir Putin, in the March 2012 presidential election. This came in a statement at a news conference in Moscow earlier today by the Patriots of Russia Chairman, Gennady Semigin.The Patriots of Russia party has decided to vote for Prime Minister, the United Russia party leader, Vladimir Putin, in the March 2012 presidential election. This came in a statement at a news conference in Moscow earlier today by the Patriots of Russia Chairman, Gennady Semigin. According to him, his party has been in opposition to the ruling party, United Russia, for more than six years. But given the looming crisis, Patriots of Russia thought better of the situation and made a decision to join the United People’s Front. Patriots of Russia are a moderate left-wing party. It failed to poll the sufficient number of votes to qualify for seats in the Duma of the 6th convocation in the December 4th parliamentary election.   (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Patriots of Russia party, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, All-Russia People's Front, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 20####Russian presidential candidate paperwork filing ends today########Today the Russian Central Elections Commission is ending the acceptance of papers from political parties to register their nominees as presidential candidates.Today the Russian Central Elections Commission is ending the acceptance of papers from political parties to register their nominees as presidential candidates. The required papers have already been submitted by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin of the United Russia party, the leader of A Just Russia party Sergei Mironov, the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the leader of the Communist Party Gennady Zyuganov and also one of the Yabloko party founders, Grigory Yavlinsky. Some self-nominees also plan to run for presidency, including billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov and another four candidates. To be registered, they will have to submit 2 million voters’ signatures by January 18th. The presidential election in Russia is due on March 4th . (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 20####Russian CEC registered Putin as presidential candidate########The Russian Central Elections Commission has registered Prime Minister Vladimir Putin as a presidential candidate. Putin was nominated by the United Russia party, the leading political force in the country, and became the first officially registered presidential candidate.The Russian Central Elections Commission has registered Prime Minister Vladimir Putin as a presidential candidate. Putin was nominated by the United Russia party, the leading political force in the country, and became the first officially registered presidential candidate. The leaders of other Russian political parties, namely Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia, Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal Democratic Party, Gennady Zyuganov of the Communist Party and Grigory Yavlinsky of the Yabloko liberal party have also submitted their papers for registration. Several self-nominees, including billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, also want to run for president in the March 4th elections. (RIAN) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 20####CEC: First stage comes to a close########The Russian Central Elections Commission (CEC) has finalized the process of filing the documents submitted for registration by presidential candidates ahead of the 2012 elections. They include leaders of almost all the registered political parties and several independent candidates – a list that experts say may eventually finally become shorter.The Russian Central Elections Commission (CEC) has finalized the process of filing the documents submitted for registration by presidential candidates ahead of the 2012 elections. They include leaders of almost all the registered political parties and several independent candidates – a list that experts say may eventually finally become shorter. On Tuesday, the CEC registered Prime Minister Vladimir Putin as a presidential candidate. Earlier,  documents were submitted for registration by Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov, A Just Russia Party head Sergei Mironov, leader of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDPR) Vladimir Zhirinovsky, and the Yabloko Party candidate  Grigory Yavlinsky. The line-up have raised many eyebrows given the wide public uproar caused by the results of the December 4 parliamentary elections in Russia which prompted many to speak about  possible new opposition presidential candidates. At the end of the day, the system opposition decided to go to the polls with the same well-known politicians. This is a sign that the opposition has already backed down from a serious political strife, says Mikhail Remizov, head of the Institute of National Strategy in Moscow. "Taking part in the 2012 elections will be experts on defeat in fixed matches," Remizov says referring to the “systemic opposition” in Russia. "Zyuganov, for example, knows perfectly well that he will never win in the upcoming presidential elections. But he is reluctant to see someone else from his party compete with him which may be of interest to the public. This is also the case with the LDPR and Yabloko which have preferred stability and comfort to real political chances which could help create new politicians in Russia. In this regard, Putin’s considering himself the main contender in the presidential elections is only natural," Remizov adds. As for the independent presidential candidates, they include Irkutsk Regional Governor Dmitry Mezentsev and the former mayor of the Russian Far Eastern city of Vladivostok, Viktor Cherepkov. Also on the list is billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, self-proclaimed presidential candidate who again came to the fore in the wake of his scandalous flop during the pre-parliamentary election campaign in Russia. Even though he has already stated  his presidential ambitions, his supporters are unlikely to see him succeed because he is yet to map out a clear-cut political program. Maxim Grigoryev is a Moscow-based political analyst. "Prokhorov’s first political experience was, in fact, a failure," Grigoryev says. "Actually, Right Cause Party members ousted him because they saw him as a troublesome person who had made a spate of statements that infuriated ordinary people. Suffice it to remember that he urged people to keep savings in dollars and euros simultaneously, while at the same time calling for two-year savings to be kept in rubles," Grigoryev concludes. He was echoed by Mikhail Remizov who said that Prokhorov was unlikely to gain the necessary percentage of the vote even during the first stage of the elections. "First and foremost, Prokhorov should court those urban protesters who are reluctant to support the Communist Party or the LDPR," Remizov says. "If he fails to do so, they will continue to see him as a representative and a symbol of oligarchic interests which will prevent him from being backed by these people." Under the Russian law, each of the presidential candidates, includng the independent ones and those from non-parliamentary parties, must collect 2 million signatures in his or her support – a tricky task that former Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov failed to achieve resolve during last year’s presidential campaign. Maria Vesnovskaya Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 22####Russia's CEC reports on Putin's income########The Russian Central Elections Commission (CEC) has published information about the income of Vladimir Putin. As the Prime Minister of Russia, Putin has earned 17.7 million rubles. He has savings worth 5.7 million rubles on his account.The Russian Central Elections Commission (CEC) has published information about the income of Vladimir Putin. As the Prime Minister of Russia, Putin has earned 17.7 million rubles. He has savings worth 5.7 million rubles on his account. Putin owns a flat in St. Petersburg the area of which is 77 square meters and a land plot in the Moscow region with an area of 1,500 square meters. He also has three Russian cars and a trailer. Putin became the first presidential candidate officially registered by the CEC. (RBC) Russia, Central Election Commission, income, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 24####Pro-Putin committee set up in Urals region########A working committee in support of Vladimir Putin’s policies has been set up in Russia’s Ural region. The committee will coordinate the regional workers' civil actions in support of the Prime Minister's candidacy in the forthcoming presidential elections.A working committee in support of Vladimir Putin’s policies has been set up in Russia’s Ural region. The committee will coordinate the regional workers' civil actions in support of the Prime Minister's candidacy in the forthcoming presidential elections. The decision to this effect has been made at a meeting of workers of the cities of Nizhni Tagil and Verkhyaya Salda, ITAR-TASS reports. (ITAR-TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 26####P.M. Putin has majority support########The Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, enjoys the support of a majority of members of Russian society and that support has not dwindled after opposition rallies held on December 10th and on Saturday according to a statement by the press secretary for the Prime Minister, Dmitry Peskov.The Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, enjoys the support of a majority of members of Russian society and that support has not dwindled after opposition rallies held on December 10th and on Saturday according to a statement by the press secretary for the Prime Minister, Dmitry Peskov. In the statement Mr. Peskov said that clear evidence of this were the results of the previous December 4th elections to the lower house of parliament during which the United Russia Party, led by Prime Minister Putin, won a comfortable majority. At the same time, the government has listened to the "voice of the opposition" and has taken specific steps to reform the political system and to further its democratization. 0(AFP) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian parliamentary elections, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 26####Candidates for presidency nominated in Russia########At its Monday session, the Russian Central Elections Commission registered the leader of A Just Russia party Sergey Mironov as a candidate for the Russian presidential election, Russian news agencies report. The next Russian presidential election is to be held on the 4th of March 2012.At its Monday session, the Russian Central Elections Commission registered the leader of A Just Russia party Sergey Mironov as a candidate for the Russian presidential election, Russian news agencies report. The next Russian presidential election is to be held on the 4th of March 2012. Earlier the Central Elections Commission registered Prime Minister Vladimir Putin as the candidate for presidency from the ruling United Russia party. The other candidates are Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia, the leader of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation Gennady Zyuganov, and one of the founders of the Yabloko party, Grigory Yavlinsky. Several self-nominated candidates are also planning to run for the presidency, beside the party candidates. (RIAN) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 27####Putin opts for discussing presidential election transparency online########Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who is running for President in 2012, has suggested taking the discussion of the forthcoming elections’ transparency to Internet blogs.One should hear people out, he told a meeting of the federal coordination centre of the All-Russia People’s Front on Tuesday. According to Putin, some forces that lack shared objectives, a common programme and leaders are trying to delegitimize elections in the Russian Federation. We should make voting transparent, to make it understandable and unbiased, the Prime Minister said. He pointed out that one of the moves to be made to ensure this is the installation of web cameras at polling stations. The presidential election in Russia has been scheduled for March 4th. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 27####Ex-Minister Kudrin: Putin not worried about March 4th elections########Prime Minister Putin is not worried about the upcoming presidential elections and is prepared for a dialogue with the opposition.Prime Minister Putin is not worried about the upcoming presidential elections and is prepared for a dialogue with the opposition. The former Russian finance minister Alexei Kudrin whom experts traditionally regard as one of Putin’s teammates said as much in an interview with the Russian business newspaper “Vedomosti”. The Russian economist says that he is prepared to act as a mediator between the government and the opposition. The discussion of the political situation in Russia which came about following the latest parliamentary elections and the large-scale rallies of protest against the election results, continues. Last Saturday, on December 24th, opposition supporters held what was the largest rally in nearly 20 years at the centre of Moscow, demanding fair re-elections. The protesters’ new slogan was that Putin should step down and move away from the political arena. As you might remember, Russia’s Prime Minister has already served two terms as president, and now he is planning to take part in the presidential election in March next year.     Opposition supporters believe that the authorities should broaden the freedom of speech, liberalize the political system and make the voting procedure transparent at all levels. However, Vladimir Putin remains the key figure here. Opposition supporters want him to resign while sociologists and political analysts keep saying that there’s no politician in Russia other than Putin who would enjoy this level of respect and would be recognized as a very effective leader. Which means that there is a need to start looking for a possibility for a dialogue, Alexei Kudrin, the former Russian finance minister and an economist, who is well-recognized in both Russia and abroad, says. He held a ministerial post under Vladimir Putin for more than 10 years and was regarded as his closest teammate. However, after his criticism of President Medvedev’s economic policy in September this year he was fired. Over the past months, he repeatedly criticized the government, and on December 24th he attended the opposition meeting where he expressed his discontent with the recent parliamentary elections: "Speaking alone is no good – what we need are deeds. It would be a good idea to hold the March 4th elections on new terms. Besides, it is necessary to prepare a platfor for a dialogue. Otherwise, we’ll face a revolution and lose that very chance for peaceful changes we have today.  We can also lose the trust the new government will need. And lastly, it is necessary today to adopt new laws on political parties, conduct the registration procedure and carry out a pre-election campaign." Kudrin told the “Vedomosti” newspaper that before going to the rally, he had met with Vladimir Putin and had discussed the situation in Russia and the need for political reforms with him. Moreover, Kudrin said he had understood that the Prime Minister was ready for a constructive dialogue with the opposition. The former Russian Prime Minister also said that Putin was not worried about the forthcoming presidential elections of March 4th, 2012, and that the latter was ready to take all the necessary measures to ensure fair elections. Many opposition supporters also say that they are prepared for the dialogue, Alexei Kudrin said. Which offers proof that there’s a chance to hold what could be termed “iconic” elections in March next year. Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Alexei Kudrin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 27####Putin wants ‘everything to be transparent’########On Tuesday, Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin spoke at a meeting of the All-Russian People's Front. As a presidential candidate, Mr. Putin said that making the upcoming presidential elections transparent and objective would take a lot of effort.On Tuesday, Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin spoke at a meeting of the All-Russian People's Front. As a presidential candidate, Mr. Putin said that making the upcoming presidential elections transparent and objective would take a lot of effort. He addressed members of public organizations, asking them to submit their initiatives on making the election process more transparent.  The prime minister suggested that all the constructive proposals with regard to ensuring the elections` transparency should be compiled. Earlier this month, Mr. Putin said that 24hour web cameras at polling stations might help. He also urged all parties represented in the parliament to monitor the presidential elections. He believes that this might help in responding to attempts made by some forces to delegitimize the election process: “Speaking about the need to ensure transparency of the elections, I`d like to stress that we are interested in it more than anybody else. We must be sure that our citizens support us. This is a matter of principle as we won`t be able to implement our projects without public support.” Moscow and other Russian cities have seen mass protests in recent weeks, with people taking to the streets to protest against the fraud which is alleged to have taken place in the December 4 parliamentary elections. The first mass rally took place on Bolotnaya Square in Moscow on December 10th, with up to 40,000 people reported to have shown up. The second rally on Sakharov Avenue last Saturday brought together up to 120,000 protesters. Among other things, people demanded the results of the December 4 vote to be cancelled and called for new parliamentary elections to be held. Mr. Putin commented on the protests: “In any country, there will always be people unhappy with election results. And there will always be forces merely focused on being involved in some kind of activity without imagining the outcome …These people have the right to express their point of view, and we should respect them. The problem is that they lack a well-conceived program and do not have leaders who could achieve any tangible results.” Vladimir Putin said that being a presidential candidate, he needs no fraud-tainted vote and promised to do his best to ensure fairness of the forthcoming elections. Svetlana Kalmykova Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, All-Russia People's Front, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 28####Russia election panel okays video cameras########Russia’s Central Election Commission has ruled that each polling station will be provided with web-cameras during the presidential election on March 4th 2012. Two cameras will work non-stop during the polls, the commission says.Russia’s Central Election Commission has ruled that each polling station will be provided with web-cameras during the presidential election on March 4th 2012. Two cameras will work non-stop during the polls, the commission says. One will monitor registration tables where voters are handed ballot papers, the other will stand watch at the ballot boxes and boxes for unused ballot sheets. Video of the polls will be streamed on-line on a special Internet page. The cameras will be installed on orders from Prime Minister Vladimir Putin in order to make the elections more transparent. (Vesti) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 28####More candidates join presidential race########Russia’s Central Election Commission has registered the founder of Russia’s Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky and the leader of the Communists Gennady Zyuganov as presidential candidates for the March 2012 elections. Earlier, PM Putin from the ruling United Russia and Sergey Mironov from A Just Russia also underwent the registration procedure.Russia’s Central Election Commission has registered the founder of Russia’s Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky and the leader of the Communists Gennady Zyuganov as presidential candidates for the March 2012 elections. Earlier, PM Putin from the ruling United Russia and Sergey Mironov from A Just Russia also underwent the registration procedure. The leader of the opposition Yabloko party Grigory Yavlinsky has also joined the race. Among independent candidates are tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov, ex-mayor of Vladivostok Viktor Cherepkov and Irkutsk Governor Dmitry Mezentsev. RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 28####Russian authorities try to reach out to opposition########The Russian authorities are trying to establish a constructive dialogue with the opposition by introducing a package of bills that will modernize the political system in the country.As easier registration procedures is to pave the way for several right-wing movements, experts doubt that the new parties will refresh the political life in Russia and try to pinpoint common ground for the authorities and their opponents. Recent rallies “For fair elections” were the largest in Russian history. They did not come as a surprise, though, as analysts had been discussing the growing discontent of some circles with the authorities for the whole year. Judging by an immediate response of the Kremlin and the cabinet, it should be said that experts’ warnings were taken seriously and some plans were in stock. Steps to change the political system should have been taken much earlier. Possibly, last summer. This is an opinion from the former Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin. In an interview with the Kommersant. FM radio station on Tuesday, he said that the protesters called on authorities to annul the parliamentary elections and hold new ones. He dismissed this idea as wrong, as thus the Parliament would not be acting for another 4 months. He supported the idea of early Parliamentary elections, but argued that they should have been held in a year and a half in accordance with the reforms proposed by President Dmitry Medvedev, that include lower registration threshold and a simpler registration process. These very ideas were voiced by Prime Minister Putin at a meeting of the All-Russian Popular Front. As far as Mr. Kudrin himself is concerned, he says he is ready to play some role in creating a new party. He also suggested that he could become Prime Minister, if asked to. "If the authorities are eager to increase the degree of liberalism and support their plans by a political reform, I would not exclude the possibility that one day I would accept such a proposal. But it depends on those who will come up with this idea. I am somebody else now. Time will show whether there will be any interest in me." There are plans for too many right-wing parties in Russia with the Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov and the head of the City Without Drugs Foundation Evgeny Roizman, the former members of the disbanded Union of Right Forces, the former leader of the Democratic party and a member of the Right Cause party Andrey Bogdanov all planning to create their own movements. Alexei Kudrin is acting as a popular figure with some people from the entourage of Mikhail Prokhorov and Boris Nadezhdin admitting they would like to invite the former Finance Minister to join them. Some analysts, thought, do not see Alexei Kudrin as a middleman between the authorities and opposition, and doubt the future of the right movements in Russia. In the aftermath of the first rallies in early December President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said they were ready to discuss thorny issues. The problem is that, apart from accusing the authorities of vote-rigging, the protesters did not come up with any proposals or a program. Analysts believe that the opposition is unable to offer any positive measure other than demand the resignation of Prime Minister Putin. It is high time to pass on to some constructive discussion. The society has to solve all the questions by the 4th of March. And the authorities are doing everything on their part to help this cause.      Igor Siletsky Russia, Opinion & Analysis, opposition, Russian presidential election 2012, opposition rally, rallies For Fair Elections, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 30####Russia’s CEC releases income data of 2 presidential hopefuls########Russia’s CEC has published data on the incomes of presidential candidates - Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov and Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal Democratic Party. According to data provided by Gennady Zyuganov, in the last four years, he earned a total of 7.68 million rubles; his accounts amount to over 3.7 million rubles.Russia’s CEC has published data on the incomes of presidential candidates - Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov and Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal Democratic Party. According to data provided by Gennady Zyuganov, in the last four years, he earned a total of 7.68 million rubles; his accounts amount to over 3.7 million rubles. His wife in that same period earned about 350 thousand rubles, and has savings to a tune of slightly over 738 thousand rubles. In 4 years Vladimir Zhirinovsky earned more than 22 million rubles. He has under 750 thousand rubles in his bank accounts; he also owns nearly 74 million shares of VTB Bank. The Liberal Democratic Party leader’s wife, Galina Lebedeva owns ten plots of land of a total area of 10 hectares, eight country homes, and three houses in Moscow region. (Lenta.ru) Russia, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, income, Russian presidential election 2012, Gennady Zuganov, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2011 December 30####Presidential race in Russia: who is to win?########In March 2012 Russia will elect a new President and for the first time the candidate will be elected for 6 years. Professor Richard Rose, director of the Centre for the Study of Public Policy, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, regular contributor to The Times, Daily Telegraph, Economist, BBC, ITN, STV, and election analyst, shared his view about the upcoming elections in an exclusive interview with the Voice of Russia.How can you comment on the chances of each of the candidates and first of all on the chances of Vladimir Putin? The first point is to get on the ballot. Because the fact that people announce that they would like to run doesn’t mean that they’re on the ballot. And in previous presidential elections some very odd things happened, because party leaders refused to be nominated. What we know is that the communists can nominate a candidate, as well as the United Russia, the Liberal democrats and A Just Russia. The question is what sort of candidate will the Communist party nominate. Will they nominate a man who has been nominated before; this will be convenient for the United Russia and for Vladimir Putin, because against Zuganov he can win. Or will they nominate somebody else, who shows the opposition has changed from what it used to be. Zhirinovsky is again a candidate who wins some votes, but not enough to win. Hence the announced billionaire, first of all, has to get on the ballot, and you have to spend tens of millions of dollars collecting the signatures, and you have to find the people who will go all over Russia collecting them. Then they have to be approved in the Central Electoral Commission. And also that billionaire is not always popular in Russia, so it’s not quite clear how many candidates will be on the ballot. The more candidates on the ballot – the harder it is for Vladimir Putin to get 50% of the votes in the first run. What do you think of the current protests in Russia, whether they can influence the results of the elections in some way? They certainly require thinking not only from the Kremlin but also from the protesters themselves. The interesting thing is that the protesters are very explicit in political issues but they lack a political party, and they don’t have a person yet who could be a presidential candidate. In case of Putin’s victory what are the prospects of Russia’s development in the nearest future? It depends only on the price of oil. Putin was very lucky, he came in, when the price of oil was low and it’s been much higher, extremely high. It enabled the government to build up a lot of cash that they can spend. The price of oil will last in the short term. So in the short term, as long as oil stays up on the day-to day basis, things will look good, but on a medium term basis you don’t have the sorting out of the economical problems. How, in your opinion, could the course of foreign policy and Russian relations with Europe and with the United Sates change? Under Putin Russia has played its hand very well to Europe. First of all, it exploited differences of energy reliance in order to divide EU countries into those who want to rely on Russian energy and those who don’t. It’s showing the weakness of the EU. Second, Russia managed to get into the World Trade organization, and that will make it easier for Russia to trade. And recent history indicates that Russian practices are stronger, but what the WTO rules when there is a conflict – that remains to be seen. For the rest of the world the leading question is Iran, because it is not a stable dictatorship, it has a nuclear program. The United States for related reasons are nervous about what Iran is doing, and Iran is much closer to Russia than it is to Washington. We don’t know what Iran will do. Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 02####2012: what are we in for?########Traditionally, a leap year is expected to bring many challenges. The year 2012 is not going to be an exception. Some problems were ‘inherited’ from the previous year, while new ones will certainly be faced. It is already clear, however, that this year is going to be reach in terms of both political and social life.Traditionally, a leap year is expected to bring many challenges. The year 2012 is not going to be an exception. Some problems were ‘inherited’ from the previous year, while new ones will certainly be faced. It is already clear, however, that this year is going to be reach in terms of both political and social life.  The euro zone crisis, which has already affected the global economy, appears to continue having its impact on us. Experts have different opinions about ‘euro’ as a single currency in the EU. Brussels is aware that deep but, unfortunately, unpopular banking reforms are required. Meanwhile, ordinary people see austerity measures as something that imposes restrictions on them and feel that they are carrying the main burden of the crisis. The southern Europe – Greece, Spain and Portugal – have already experienced the economic hardships. Italy is about facing the same. The crisis is posing a threat to France, too, while Germany traditionally remains a guarantor of stability. The vice-chairman of the Center for political technology, Mikhail Remezov, shares his economic forecast for the coming year: “The future of the European Union, how it will be reorganized, remains the most intriguing issue about this year.” Expert Alexei Makarkin believes that one should not fall for popular ‘apocalyptic’ predictions about the collapse of the EU: “I think that these predictions are more about fearing in advance rather than analyzing the real threats. Of course, central European banks are living through difficult times and are facing many risks, but this is still not a problem which dominates the agenda”.  Many countries will host presidential elections in 2012. Experts agree that they won`t run smoothly due to protest moods in the society. Political analyst Sergei Mikheev told the VoR about the elections in Russia: “The candidates will have to prove that they really serve the interests of the people. Obviously, it will cost them much effort to rival Vladimir Putin.”  Alexei Makarkin believes that Russia’s new political leadership will have to face global economic challenges: “Currently Russia enjoys a relatively stable economic situation, not the one it faced in 1998 and 2008. Russia’s national debt is not that high, and its banking system operates well. Nevertheless, Russia still depends on global pricing policy, and if the European crisis results in lower demand for energy, Russia will face serious problems. In this case, the government might be forced to take unpopular measures, and this is where consolidation between different social groups and different political parties would be especially important.” All experts are at one that a dialogue between the authorities and the public is very important at present. The authorities should not be afraid of discussions and the opposition, especially the parliamentary opposition, should feel responsible for stability in the country. The 1150th anniversary of the Russian state, marked this year, may serve to strengthen this stability. This date will be marked during the entire 2012, in accordance with the Russian president’s decree. Mikhail Remizov speaks about the public significance of this event: “This is really a very significant date, which is the reason for summing up the millennium of our state and outlining the prospects for the future.” This year will also see presidential elections in the US and France. Mikhail Remizov gives his opinion of these events: “The current US and French presidents are among the leaders in compiling a global anti-crisis programme. They determine the global policy to a great extent. Will they succeed in being re-elected or will their rivals succeed? A lot depends on this, especially in France. I can see a very interesting intrigue there, which is associated with the participation of Jean-Marie Le Pen’s National Front, a right-wing radical party, in the election.  The degree of this party’s success may indicate how susceptible Europe is to the right-wing moods. As for Obama, he is a strong public politician, on the one hand. On the other hand, he is losing popularity, so the US election will also have an unpredictable result." The APEC summit in Vladivostok which is to take place in September will be another significant event of the new year. Russia is the APEC chairman at present. Experts believe that the meeting in Vladivostok  will play an important part in the dialogue and consolidation of cooperation. 2012 is also the year of the 30th summer Olympic Games in London which take place between the 27th of July and the 12th of August. This will be a great festive event for world sports and sports fans. Russia and Germany will carry out a cross-cultural year with the motto “We Build the Future Together”. All the events in the course of this year are aimed at the consolidation of cooperation in politics, economics, culture, education and science. This year is not expected to be easy.  Many global challenges continue to aggravate the life of the world community. The war in Afghanistan is not yet over. The drug problem emanating from that country is making things worse. The Middle East is boiling up; the Arab spring has given birth to the revival of radical Islamism. Relations between Palestine and Israel are experiencing a deep crisis. The Iranian nuclear problem is still unsolved. North Korea will also go through a difficult period. It has a new political leader and old nuclear ambitions. The problem of international terrorism is still there. This is far from a complete list but this is what our world is like. We only have one world to live in  and we want to hope that 2012 will be better than the previous year. Alexander Vatutin Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, global economy, 2012 Summer Olympics, Russian presidential election 2012, US presidential elections 2012, 2012 APEC summit, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 04####Caroline Dufy: Europe still needs Russian reserves########In an exclusive interview with the “Voice of Russia” Caroline Dufy ,  economist, sociologist and teacher at the institute of political studies in Bordeaux, (EHESS &  Sciences Po Bordeaux ) told about the advantages of longer presidential term in Russia and shared her views on the coming presidential elections in Russia.In an exclusive interview with the “Voice of Russia” Caroline Dufy, economist, sociologist and teacher at the institute of political studies in Bordeaux, (EHESS & Sciences Po Bordeaux) told about the advantages of longer presidential term in Russia and shared her views on the coming presidential elections in Russia. Do you think that Vladimir Putin will definitely win the presidential elections and become the head of the Russian Federation again?  This is inevitable, because such is reality whether it is good or bad.  Putin said he did not need to rig the results of the elections in order to win. It seems to me he is confident of receiving the majority of votes. But he may also have to mobilize more administrative resources than earlier. Is it good or bad for the country? I would not say that it is bad. After all the main question is who will come to power and how many votes he will receive.  It would be good if the opposition joined forces around a strong and reliable leader.  In case Putin wins the elections what are the prospects of Russia’s development? Will the situation in the country be stable?  The national economic situation depends rather on the situation in the world than on Putin. Russia’s economy strongly depends on the international situation and on oils export market.  Considering that Europe is gripped by the economic and financial crisis it will be very difficult for Russia to avoid it. I spoke to an economist who had predicted crisis in Russia in 2012.  It looks quite logical amid the European crisis. The Russian economy is based on oil and gas. The financial crisis will affect their consumption – it will cease to be so important. But Europe really needs the Russian reserves and they are still valuable today.  What do you think about alternative presidential candidates?  By now the opposition has weakened the position of Vladimir Putin.  But this opposition is mainly Moscow-based and these are mainly intellectuals.  The people who took part in protest meetings are mainly well-educated. This is not the opposition of the whole country. From this point of view, I think there is no person who is able to unite all the opponents around him. Now it is too difficult.  There are alternative presidential candidates. But Vladimir Putin has a good reputation. That is why after all there is no alternative, no leaders people can rely on. The protesters are talking about Navalny. But can he become a real candidate?  I don’t think so. There are other candidates such as Prokhorov and the representatives of the traditional opposition – Zyuganov, Zhirinovsky, Yavlinsky, Mironov… But this opposition remains divided and scattered between different political parties such as the Communist party, Liberal-Democratic party and traditional liberal parties which have always been quite weak such as Yabloko headed by Yavlinsky, for example. There are some new political figures but for the moment they are also quite weak.  Summing it all up, I think the Russian opposition is too divided today scattered between different social groups and political parties. One more problem for the opposition is that it lacks a reliable leader.    And what do you think about Mikhail Prokhorov’s candidacy? I think that Mikhail Prokhorov resembles Khodorkovsky and a self-murderer in a national political game. As a presidential candidate, he is very deceptive and is still under pressure of a political elite and traditional rules of political game. He has few supporters. I don’t think that for now, Prokhorov is really an alternative and reliable presidential candidate. Another factor is that he remains an oligarch, something that is disliked by the population of Russia. Can the opposition protests affect the results of the presidential elections despite the absence of an opposition leader? I think that the future Russian leader will have to partly heed these protests. Vladimir Putin’s rhetoric related to the protesters has already changed. Earlier, he was speaking about them with contempt, but now he sees the opposition as a more serious force. It is necessary to change a political strategy a little bit by giving the opposition normal conditions of existence. It will not lead to drastic changes, but it will lead to a change in a form of communication between the authorities and the opposition. What do you think about the introduction of the 6-year presidential term in Russia? Is it possible to draw parallels between Russia and France in this connection? A presidential term in France was reduced from 7 to 5 years which I think is a positive tendency amid the current political atmosphere. During the last elections in Russia, the presidential term amounted to a short period of 4 years which was in line of the system of elections in the US where political activity is defined by short-term prospects. The prolongation of the presidential term gives more time and opportunities for political activity. I think that such changes are positive because six years are a much more reasonable time to implement all the political plans. During the 4-year presidential term, political life only sees preparations for the forthcoming elections of the same candidates, something that does not contribute to political development.  Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Interview, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 10####Putin election agenda to go public by Feb 12th########The Russian Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin is drawing up his election agenda on the basis of his “national development strategy”. The agenda is due to be made public by February 12th. The People’s Front candidates used the “national development strategy” to run in the December 2011 election to the Duma.The Russian Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin is drawing up his election agenda on the basis of his “national development strategy”. The agenda is due to be made public by February 12th. The People’s Front candidates used the “national development strategy” to run in the December 2011 election to the Duma. According to the Moscow-based daily Izvestia, the agenda will prove a compressed version of the strategy, yet it will boast quite a few fresh ideas. Both the forthcoming agenda and the strategy will share the chapters that deal with Russia’s economic, social and foreign policy. But while the development strategy was prepared on the basis of proposals from 1.5 million people, the election agenda is being drawn up by Vladimir Putin himself, to feature his own world outlook of a politician and citizen. Still, he is consulting his campaign headquarters on the agenda.  (IF) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 11####Russia invites ODIHR to observe elections########Russia’s Central Election Commission has invited representatives of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to monitor the presidential elections on March 4th. A total of 200 experts are expected to observe the elections.Russia’s Central Election Commission has invited representatives of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to monitor the presidential elections on March 4th. A total of 200 experts are expected to observe the elections. 40 of them will be working with a long-term mission, Election Commission officials said. The Office has obtained all the necessary documentation for recruiting election monitors and the first observers will get down to work in January, ODIHR’s press secretary Jens Eschenbaecher said. IF, RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 12####Putin quits TV debates due to packed schedule - Peskov########Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who is running for the presidency in March 4 elections, won`t take part in televised debates due to his busy schedule at his current post. The announcement was made by Putin`s press-secretary Dmitry Peskov.Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who is running for the presidency in March 4 elections, won`t take part in televised debates due to his busy schedule at his current post. The announcement was made by Putin`s press-secretary Dmitry Peskov. He added, however, that air time guaranteed to each presidential candidate will be used to bring Mr. Putin`s message home to the nation. Dmitry Peskov also said that the prime minister might send some officials to the debates to speak on his behalf.  (Interfax) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 12####Putin`s website launched as presidential race goes under way########Russia will seek a collective approach to international security and will respond to unilateral steps taken by foreign partners, if they do not respect the interests of Moscow. The announcement was made as part of the presidential election program unveiled by Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on www.putin2012.ru web site launched on Thursday.Russia will seek a collective approach to international security and will respond to unilateral steps taken by foreign partners, if they do not respect the interests of Moscow. The announcement was made as part of the presidential election program unveiled by Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on www.putin2012.ru web site launched on Thursday. Apart from general information about the candidate, the site has a section called ‘Let us change Russia together’, where every Internet user is welcome to leave a message to Mr. Putin. Starting from Friday, the web site is also expected to be available in the Cyrillic domain ‘рф’.  VoR Russia, Vladimir Putin, internet, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 12####Putin lays emphasis on stimulating investment########Russian Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin intends to lay greater emphasis on stimulating investment and innovative development. His draft campaign program posted on www.putin2012.ru web site, which was launched on Thursday, says that setting up new production to Russia should be more attractive than in other countries.Russian Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin intends to lay greater emphasis on stimulating investment and innovative development. His draft campaign program posted on www.putin2012.ru web site, which was launched on Thursday, says that setting up new production to Russia should be more attractive than in other countries.   Apart from general information about the candidate, the site has a section called ‘Let us change Russia together’, where every Internet user is welcome to leave a message to Mr. Putin. Starting from Friday, the web site is also expected to be available in the Cyrillic domain ‘рф’. (VoR)  Russia, Vladimir Putin, investments, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Economy Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 12####Internet cameras to watch presidential elections########Russia’s Central Election Commission is installing web-cameras and computers at all polling stations across the country in a bid to ensure video surveillance at presidential elections to be held on the 4th of March, 2012.Russia’s Central Election Commission is installing web-cameras and computers at all polling stations across the country in a bid to ensure video surveillance at presidential elections to be held on the 4th of March, 2012. It was Russia's Prime Minister Vladimir Putin who proposed to use cameras to fight against possible falsifications at elections in a response to a wave of protests that followed the December parliamentary elections. The Ministry of Communications responsible for equipping polling stations with cameras says that right now its representatives are choosing, testing and buying the necessary equipment. The Ministry is expected to spend a total of 12 billion rubles. Each polling station will be equipped with two cameras and a computer. The pictures will be transmitted from each camera to a dedicated Internet site which can be found through a hyperlink from the Central Elections Commission web site. A total of 200 thousand cameras and 100 thousand computers will be needed for this task. The national telecommunications company Rostelecom will be in charge of installing cameras at the polling stations. The equipment will be tested as early as the 15th of February. According to the document approved by the Central Elections Committee on Wednesday, cameras will be on from 8 am to 8 pm. One of two cameras will be installed to show the room as a whole, another one – ballot boxes and containers for unused ballots. It will be prohibited to carry out video surveillance inside polling booths. Internet users worry that the Russian Internet will crash under load. Ekaterina Aksenova, CEO of Strateg agency, dispels these fears. "Millions of videos are posted, broadcast and watched online. This has almost no impact on the existing infrastructure. On the elections day there will be nothing special. Channels should be all right." The Ministry of Communications also believes that the load will increase by 15-20 percent that will lead to the lagging of some websites at the very worst. Video footage will be preserved in regional centers for a year after the elections results are officially published. Access to them will be unrestricted. The Ministry stressed that this project by Mr. Putin is unparalleled in the world.         Igor Siletsky Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 12####Putin pledges government accountability if elected########Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin pledges to make the government accountable to the public if he is elected president on March 4. This is part of his campaign published on www.putin2012.ru website on January 12. The candidate promises to set up administrative courts to facilitate complaint procedures filed against the government.Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin pledges to make the government accountable to the public if he is elected president on March 4. This is part of his campaign published on www.putin2012.ru website on January 12. The candidate promises to set up administrative courts to facilitate complaint procedures filed against the government. Putin believes that the government’s activity in such spheres as state purchase contracts, road construction, housing utilities and law enforcement should be controlled by the public. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 12####Putin pledges high pensions and salaries if elected########Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin had pledged to raise Russians pensions and salaries of ordinary Russians if he is elected president on March 4. This is part of his campaign published on the www.putin2012.ru website on January 12. He stressed that no one in Russia will be poor.Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin had pledged to raise Russians pensions and salaries of ordinary Russians if he is elected president on March 4. This is part of his campaign published on the www.putin2012.ru website on January 12. He stressed that no one in Russia will be poor. Putin also promised that public sector professionals will get higher than average salaries in their respective regions. Putin also promised to increase pensions and other social payments. The presidential candidate also guaranteed free medical treatment and regular medical examination for everybody. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 12####2012: Year of change########The year 2012 is going to be the year of change. Countries around the globe might face changes in their leadership and political agendas following presidential or parliamentary elections. Presidential elections will take place in Russia, France, the US and a number of Arab Spring countries.The year 2012 is going to be the year of change. Countries around the globe might face changes in their leadership and political agendas following presidential or parliamentary elections. Presidential elections will take place in Russia, France, the US and a number of Arab Spring countries. During the intervals between the elections the world will be busy discussing the future of global energy and the issue of nuclear security. In summer, global audiences will be stuck in front of TV screens watching the European Football Championships in Poland and Ukraine and the Summer Olympics in London.  The year 2012 will see more efforts to meet a number of challenges in connection with the global financial crisis. The Occupy Wall Street Movement has broken the US borders to spread over to many other parts of the world. Occupy movements, so popular among the young, testify to the crisis of political systems worldwide. Mikhail Remizov, President of the Strategy 2020 Foundation, comments. "The developed countries of the West are facing a political leadership crisis as many leaders have become unable to produce the right political agenda. This crisis has to be resolved if the countries affected by it want to secure growth. The presidential elections in the US and France might offer a good chance for resetting the political systems in these countries." In Russia, tensions over the forthcoming elections are not as bad as in France or the US. Political analysts believe that no one can be a serious rival to Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who is running for president. However, Russia’s future president is going to struggle with a whole backlog of problems. Maxim Grigoriev, President of the Democracy Foundation, reports. "The middle class in cities has become particularly active over the past few decades. It has become much stronger and much more numerous in the past year. Also, it has acquired financial independence and has more political awareness. The authorities will have to establish contact with the middle class or face failure." The dialogue between the government and civil society is a must. The authorities shouldn’t shy away from public discussions, and the opposition, particularly non-parliamentary, has to feel responsibility for the country’s stability.  The year 2012 will also see a nuclear security summit in Seoul at the end of March. South Korea plans to invite North Korea’s Deputy Prime Minister Kang Sok Chu. US President Barack Obama and Chinese President Hu Jintao are going to attend it as well. The participants are likely to focus on North Korea’s nuclear program. And there will be a summit on Afghanistan in Chicago at the end of May. Two summer months are going to be dominated by sports. The entire world will be watching European Football Championships in Poland and Ukraine. London will host the 30th Summer Olympics between July 27th and August 12th . Significantly, the British capital has become the first city honored to host the Summer Olympic Games for the third time. The 2012 Olympics and Paralympics will take place at a newly built stadium at Queen Victoria Olympic Park which was built in three years and cost 570 million pounds. The Olympic & Paralympic one-eyed mascots Wenlock and Mandeville promise to make the event a particularly memorable one. Svetlana Andreyeva Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, financial crisis, Russian presidential election 2012, 2011 highlights, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 12####Presidential candidate goes online########January 12, 2012 saw the launch of the www.putin2012.ru website which is the official web portal of Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin who will run for president in the March 2012 elections in Russia. The website contains Putin’s pre-election campaign program, his biography, interests, photographs and popular opinions.January 12, 2012 saw the launch of the www.putin2012.ru website which is the official web portal of Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin who will run for president in the March 2012 elections in Russia. The website contains Putin’s pre-election campaign program, his biography, interests, photographs and popular opinions. On the website, visitors will be able to thank or criticize the presidential candidate. Also, they will be able to leave their suggestions in the “Let’s change Russia together” section, the PM’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov said: It is difficult to build a website which could contain new or unique information about a man who has been involved in the country's leadership since 1999, Peskov says. This is why visitors will not find any sensational materials on the www.putin2012.ru website. At the same time, this is an extremely cutting edge and reliable online resource which contains all the necessary information about Putin as a presidential candidate, Peskov concludes. In his election campaign program, Putin focuses on economic issues, pledging to stimulate investments and innovations. As for investments, they are due to be increased to 25% of Russia's GDP by the middle of the decade as opposed to today’s 20%. “Our goal is to create at least 25 million quality jobs which will pay worthy salaries for doing interesting work in the next 20 years. Creating new manufacturing industries in Russia will be more profitable than in other countries,” the document says. It also draws attention to the fact that last decade’s model of economic growth based on high oil prices has already exhausted itself. This is why it is essential to take the energy industry, manufacturing, agriculture to a new, hi-tech level, as well as enhance the development of modern branches of production, according to the document. Additionally, Putin has pledged to create “all the [necessary] conditions for stimulating private initiative.”  In his pre-election program, he says that “we will develop and guarantee entrepreneur freedoms, first of all, protection from any attempts to infringe their private property rights.” Introducing innovative technologies is of paramount importance to Russia's economic growth, according to Putin who says that the government will promote technological modernization and will help businessmen get access to high technologies. The Skolkovo innovation center, as well as all the “innovation territories”, including scientific research centers, will play a key role in this, the document says. Shoring up the agro-industrial complex should become another priority, Putin points out, urging the simplification of the process of setting up new business related to agriculture production. The www.putin2012.ru website will only be available in Russian. After the March 4 election, it will be frozen.    The website was designed at the cost of about 300,000 dollars allocated from Putin’s campaign account. Svetlana Andreyeva Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 14####Putin’s and United Russia’s ratings on the increase########According to the VTSIOM All-Russian Centre for the Study of Public Opinion, Russian Prime Minister, the leader of the United Russia party Vladimir Putin continues to stay ahead of the other presidential candidates, his popularity rating having reached 48%. This follows from the Centre’s latest public opinion poll returns.According to the VTSIOM All-Russian Centre for the Study of Public Opinion, Russian Prime Minister, the leader of the United Russia party Vladimir Putin continues to stay ahead of the other presidential candidates, his popularity rating having reached 48%. This follows from the Centre’s latest public opinion poll returns. According to VTSIOM, the approval of President Dmitry Medvedev’s performance in the first week of 2012 has grown to 57%, while that of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to 58%. Early last month, approval figures were 51% both for the President and Prime Minister.  Meanwhile, the ratings of United Russia have also grown to 40% as oppposed to 34% to 36% in December. The figures for the other political parties remained unchanged. VTSIOM polled 1,600 people in 138 areas of 46 Russian regions and republics on the 7th and 8th of this month.  (RIAN) Russia, Vladimir Putin, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 14####2012 election campaign in full swing########Russia’s 2012 election campaign is in full swing. The main candidates had effectively passed the New Year holidays and were particularly busy campaigning during the first post-holiday week.Russia’s 2012 election campaign is in full swing. The main candidates had effectively passed the New Year holidays and were particularly busy campaigning during the first post-holiday week. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin published his election program on his brand new Putin2012 website, Vladimir Zhirinovsky and Gennady Zyuganov talked to reporters and Grigory Yavlinsky’s party activists were busy collecting signatures in his support. Vladimir Putin is the current favorite which is why his website has  caused great public interest. The portal contains a great deal of information about the candidate and also has a feedback form to enable visitors to leave their comments. The majority of visitors are interested in Putin’s election program which reflects his new world outlook, according to Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov. The Prime Minister’s priorities are social welfare and the economy, boosting investments and innovations. Putin believes that the previous economic model based on oil prices is inefficient. Today, the energy sphere, industry, and agriculture need to be upgraded while innovative branches of economy should be the main drivers of economic growth. Even though the outlined strategy was based on the program of Putin’s All-Russian People’s Front, the main principles have been designed by Prime Minister himself, says the head of the Politika Fund Vyacheslav Nikonov "Putin is the candidate who knows Russia the best. He knows everything about the country and, in my opinion, understands Russia’s complex social and ethnic structure like no one else. Thus he amended the People’s Front program himself and put his own accents on certain provisions. Now he’s responsible for attracting supporters for the program and implementing it after the elections." Some users are advising Putin to take part in political debates some of which he refused to join as he doesn’t want to go on vacations during the elections. Meanwhile, ex Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin has come back on the scene, having made controversial statements that the head of the Central Election Commission Vladimir Churov should resign and that there is a gap between the government and the opposition. Kudrin says that now he’s in the process of  creating a new liberal party. Soon we’ll see whether Kudrin gets involved in independent politics, says that the head of the Efficient Policy Fund Kirill Tanayev "In politics, a lot of things depend on the person himself and his efforts. Almost any one has a chance to succeed. If Kudrin wants to get an important position in the political system as an independent he’ll have to work a lot and I’m not sure he’s prepared for this as he has a controversial reputation." Also, I’m not sure about his role as a mediator between the government and the opposition. Now the opposition is ready for almost any talks but it would be a mistake to think that a single person could possibly assume the role of a mediator given the diverse nature of its protests. There will be many mediators and Kudrin could be one of them which would be good. (end) Russia’s tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov who is also going to run for president, has offered his assessment of the latest events in Russia in his interview with The Guardian. He said that the recent rallies had put an end to the era of “manageable democracy”. The country needs changes and they will happen but they should be brought about by evolution, he believes. Later he said that he had collected signatures needed for him to take part in the elections and they would be verified by the Central Election Commission next week. Now Prokhrov is urging all the democrats and liberals to unite on the basis of his strategy. One of Yabloko’s leaders Grigory Yavlinsky is also preparing for the elections even though his party hasn’t reached enough threshold for the Duma. He has collected 1,7 mln signatures but needs  2 mln  to be able to run for president. The candidate has time to collect more signatures until January 18. The political heavyweights, Communist Gennady Zyuganov and Lib- Dem leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky signed  a document aiming to make presidential candidates to take part in political debates.  Zyuganov has also proposed to reduce presidential term to two 5-year terms while Zhirinovsky supports one 5-year term. Sergei Mironov from A Just Russia says that he might stay in office for two years if elected president. This time would enable him to amend the legislation to increae the number of grounds for the Duma’s dissolution and to implement important social, economic and political reforms. According to the statistics, Putin’s rating has gone up after the New Year and is now 48% which is 6% higher compared to last December. The Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov has 10%,  Vladimir Zhirinovsky - 9% while Sergei Mironov is supported by 5%.Independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov scored only 3% and Grigory Yavlinsky is at the bottom with 2%. According to VTSIOM, the approval of President Dmitry Medvedev’s performance in the first week of 2012 has grown to 57%, while that of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to 58%. Early last month, approval figures were 51% both for the President and Prime Minister.  Russia’s ex-Prime Minister, Academician Evgeny Primakov believes that Putin is the best person to lead today’s Russia. The ruling United Russia is also improving its rating-it is now backed by 40% compared to 34-36% prior to the December Duma elections. The other parties have kept their ratings except Yabloko whose results have gone down from 4% to 2%. It’s natural that Putin’s past government activity is being assessed in the run-up to the elections. He had his faults and the most obvious ones were the errors he made in his appointment policies. But what really matters is that Putin has proven himself in his struggle against terrorism and his efforts to preserve Russia’s integrity, to ensure the country’s evolutionary rather than destructive revolutionary development, and its economic stability amid the global crisis, better living standards and security, Primakov said. Ilya Kharlamov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 16####Putin unveils campaign roadmap########PM Vladimir Putin is starting to get his election campaign program across to the public with the opening part posted overnight on his website. Putin’s media spokesman said Sunday thatthe remaining parts of the 100-page program are due out in the coming weeks.PM Vladimir Putin is starting to get his election campaign program across to the public with the opening part posted overnight on his website. Putin’s media spokesman said Sunday thatthe remaining parts of the 100-page program are due out in the coming weeks. Vladimir Putin is focusing on the economy, hailing Russia’s economic policy as “well thought out and judicious” ensuring production growth in the pre-crisis period, payment of debts, improving people’s living standards and stocking up on reserves. Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin feels that the ongoing financial crisis and the growth of military and political tensions in the world are prompting the need for the world nations’ cooperation, above all, the UN Security Council member-states, as well as the G-8 and the G-20 countries. He points out in an article, titled Russia Is Concentrating: Challenges that We Must Meet, that the largest economic centres continue generating problems and risks instead of serving as development engines. The Russian Prime Minister feels that the world is currently being faced with a “tectonic process of global transformation”, one that could hardly be dealt with within the currently operational system. “Our task for the years ahead is to remove everything that is preventing us from going forward along the path of national development,” Putin said in an article published on his election website and in the Izvestiya daily. The task will also be to “complete the establishment in Russia of such a political system, such a structure of social guarantees and protection for citizens, such an economic model that will together form a single, live, constantly developing and at the same time stable and sound state organism,” he said. The "organism", Putin said, will be used to “guarantee Russia’s sovereignty and the prosperity of our great power’s nationals for decades ahead, to defend justice and each person's diginity, the truth and confidence in the relations between the state and the society.” Countries that are trying to “export democracy” through military means often ally themselves with destructive forces that are whipping up social and ethno-cultural tensions in the world, Vladimir Putin wrote in his statement. Paradoxically, trampling underfoot international law and state sovereignty is often prompted by good intentions. Given the situation, Russia should appropriately act as a stabilizing factor in international relations. This is prompted by the fact that Russia organically combines the fundamentals of European civilization and its centuries-old experience of interacting with the East, where new centres of economic and political influence are now energetically gaining momentum, Putin wrote. The period of coping with the problem will prove long and painful, so one should hardly cherish any illusions to that end, the Russian Prime Minister concluded. Putin opts for cooperation to address challenges Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin feels that the ongoing financial crisis and the growth in military and political tensions in the world are prompting the need for the world nations’ cooperation, above all, the UN Security Council member-states, as well as the G-8 and the G-20 countries. He points out in an article, titled Russia Is Concentrating: Challenges that We Must Meet,that the largest economic centres continue generating problems and risks instead of serving as development engines. The Russian Prime Minister feels that the world is currently facing a “tectonic process of global transformation”, one that could hardly be dealt with within the currently operational system. The period of coping with the problem will prove long and painful, so one should hardly cherish any illusions to that end, the Russian Prime Minister writes in conclusion. Russia emerges from severe crisis after the break-up of USSR – Putin Russia has emerged from a severe crisis following the break-up of the Soviet Union. This came in a statement in an interview with the Moscow-based Izvestia daily by the Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin as he commented on the main social and economic parameters of national development. According to him, Russia’s main hope is the high level of education of young people and the population at large, something the government should take into account when drawing up economic development plans. The Prime Minister said that a crying need is the creation of 25 million high-technology and well-paid jobs for people with high educational standards. Vladimir Putin says he is certain that government policy should be built on attaining this objective of national importance. (RIAN, IF) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 16####Democracy export through military means destructive - Putin########The countries that are trying to “export democracy” through military means will often ally themselves with destructive forces that are whipping up social and ethno-cultural tensios in the world. This comes in a statement in an article that Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has posted on his website.The countries that are trying to “export democracy” through military means will often ally themselves with destructive forces that are whipping up social and ethno-cultural tensios in the world. This comes in a statement in an article that Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has posted on his website.  Paradoxically, trampling underfoot international law and state sovereignty is often prompted by good intentions, he writes. Given the situation, Russia should appropriately act as a stabilizing factor in international relations. This is prompted by the fact that Russia organically combines the fundamentals of European civilization and its centuries-old experience of interacting with the East, where new centres of economic and political influence are now energetically gaining momentum, Putin writes. (IF) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 16####Yavlinsky gathers 2mln signatures to run for presidency########Leader of Russia’s Yabloko party Grigory Yavlinsky has gathered 2 million signatures needed to qualify to run for the presidential elections on March 4. The signatures will be submitted to the Central Electoral Commission (CEC) on Wednesday, an official with the party’s press service told Interfax Monday.Leader of Russia’s Yabloko party Grigory Yavlinsky has gathered 2 million signatures needed to qualify to run for the presidential elections on March 4. The signatures will be submitted to the Central Electoral Commission (CEC) on Wednesday, an official with the party’s press service told Interfax Monday. “Twp million and 100,000 people have put their signatures for the registration of Grigory Yavlinski as a presidential candidate. Today is the last day for gathering signatures and the party expects to gather about 100 000 more signatures”, the party’s  spokesman Igor Yakovlev said. He said that the signatures had been gathered in all Russian regions as well among Russians who are residing in nine European countries, the US and Canada. IF Russia, Yabloko, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 16####Russian billionaire accuses opposition MPs of dishonesty########Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, who intends to run for presidency (the elections will take place in March), has published an article where he criticized the leaders of the country’s main opposition parties – Gennady Zyuganov of the Communist Party, Segey Mironov of “A Just Russia” and Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal Democratic party.Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, who intends to run for presidency (the elections will take place in March), has published an article where he criticized the leaders of the country’s main opposition parties – Gennady Zyuganov of the Communist Party, Segey Mironov of “A Just Russia” and Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal Democratic party. The article was published in the paper “RBK Daily” on January 16. These people, Mr. Prokhorov claims, only pretend to be oppositionists, but in fact support the ruling party “United Russia” and pursue their personal interests. After “United Russia” won the majority of seats in the parliamentary elections on December 4, many people claimed that the elections’ results were falsified, and mass rallies took place in Moscow, St. Petersburg and other Russian cities. In his article, Mr. Prokhorov accuses Mr. Zyuganov, Mr. Mironov and Mr. Zhirinovsky of using people’s dissatisfaction to PR themselves and to earn money. The next opposition rally will take place on February 4, and the leaders of the Communist Party and “A Just Russia” have already said that they would take part in it. Answering Mr. Prokhorov’s article, the people whom he criticizes said that before accusing someone of dishonesty, he should better tell how he had earned his billons. (RIAN) Russia, Mikhail Prokhorov, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 17####PM Putin: capitalism itself should be changed########In an article featured in the Izvestia newspaper and on his website putin2012.ru, Russia's Prime Minister and presidential hopeful Vladimir Putin elaborated on his reasons to run for president, gave an overview of his campaign agenda and urged the nation to show more resolve at reining in politicians.In an article featured in the Izvestia newspaper and on his website putin2012.ru, Russia's Prime Minister and presidential hopeful Vladimir Putin elaborated on his reasons to run for president, gave an overview of his campaign agenda and urged the nation to show more resolve at reining in politicians. The article also touched on what he sees as some of the major issues facing not just Russia but the world. Sergei Markov, Director of the Institute for Political Studies, says Mr. Putin agrees with the majority of international analysts that this global crisis is not just a part of the economic and political cycle but a crisis of modern capitalism and that the capitalism itself should be changed. Ricardo Young Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 18####Last day to submit presidential candidate papers########Today is the last day that the Russian Central Elections Commission is accepting papers from the presidential candidates who will have to collect 2 million signatures in their support to be able to run in the election campaign.Today is the last day that the Russian Central Elections Commission is accepting papers from the presidential candidates who will have to collect 2 million signatures in their support to be able to run in the election campaign. Papers are expected to be handed to the Central Elections Commission by businessman Mikhail Prokhorov, Irkutsk Governor Dmitry Mezentsev, one of the Yabloko party founders, Grigory Yavlinsky, and the leader of the Volya non-registered party, Svetlana Peunova. The presidential election in Russia has been set for March 4th . (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 18####Russia’s elections commission registers presidential hopefuls########Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov has turned in the 2 million signatures required to be registered as a presidential candidate. He arrived 5.5 hours late, explaining he had long been ready to meet with the Russian central elections commission but had been asked to wait. Prokhorov was the first to submit a hundred boxes filled with signatures backing his candidacy.Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov has turned in the 2 million signatures required to be registered as a presidential candidate. He arrived 5.5 hours late, explaining he had long been ready to meet with the Russian central elections commission but had been asked to wait. Prokhorov was the first to submit a hundred boxes filled with signatures backing his candidacy. A special working group will now verify these votes by randomly picking out 20% of signatures. Provided the number of invalid votes doesn’t exceed the 5% threshold, Mr. Prokhorov will then be registered as a lawful presidential candidate. January 18th, 6 p.m., is the deadline for independent presidential hopefuls to hand in the 2 million signatures that are necessary to be able vie for presidency. Signature verification is to start the following day. The final list of candidates will be drawn up by January 29th.  Candidates will still be able to bow out of the presidential race until January 27th . To do so, a candidate needs to submit an application to the central elections commission.  Two independent candidates, public figure from the Urals Rinat Khamiyev and former Vladivostok Mayor Viktor Cherepkov, have already dropped out of the race after having refused to submit signatures to the commission. Current Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, leader of the ruling United Russia party, Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov, Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov and Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky were registered as early as December. Party nominees are exempted from collecting signatures and are only required to submit an application for nomination, an income statement, a document from the party attesting their nomination and open an election account.  (RIAN) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 18####Latest from presidential race########Russia’s voters will go to the polls on March 4th to elect a new President. The registered candidates so far are Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov, the Liberal Democratic leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky and the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov.Russia’s voters will go to the polls on March 4th to elect a new President. The registered candidates so far are Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov, the Liberal Democratic leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky and the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov. Another three submitted the required signature appeals for their registration Wednesday, the founder of the liberal Yabloko party, Governor of the Irkutsk Region Dmitry Mezentsev and the billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov. According to President of the National Strategy Institute Dr Mikhail Remizov, the latter is the least known figure in the racing pack:          "New figures like Prokhorov are always welcome. His election prospects depend on his ability to rally a sizable part of the opposition behind him. And this is something that cannot be taken for granted. Indeed, he wants to lead the middle class, while being far outside it in every economic and social aspect. I doubt whether he can muster up sufficient support." The frontrunner in the race is Vladimir Putin. His third campaign, however, is radically different from the first two ones. Dr Remizov again: "In his first two races, he was destined to win from the start: in 2000, on the strength of his crackdown on Chechen terrorism the year before, and in 2004, on the strength of his action to break up the YUKOS oil company and nationalize the revenue from oil and natural gas. This time, he has no successful coups under his belt. This means he will face considerable difficulties getting elected." In the meantime, the Yabloko party is putting together a foundation for funding efforts to monitor the upcoming elections. It says the elections to the Lower House of Parliament last December were marked by irregularities, violations and even fraud. Prosecutor General Yuri Chaika says his agency has detected some 3,000 violations. A hundred officials have been reprimanded, and two criminal cases have been opened. Anastasiya Pershkina Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 18####Russia’s presidential candidates registered for the race########Russia’s Central Election Commission has registered candidates who have collected at least 2 mln signatures in their support to run in the 2012 race. On Wednesday individual candidate tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov, Yabloko head Grigory Yavlinsky and the Irkutsk region Governor Dmitry Mezentsev submitted the signatures.Russia’s Central Election Commission has registered candidates who have collected at least 2 mln signatures in their support to run in the 2012 race. On Wednesday individual candidate tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov, Yabloko head Grigory Yavlinsky and the Irkutsk region Governor Dmitry Mezentsev submitted the signatures. In December,  PM Vladimir Putin from the ruling United Russia, Sergey Mironov from A Just Russia, Gennady Zyuganov heading the Communists and Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal Democratic party were registered as candidates. (TASS)       Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 18####Putin backs electoral transparency and fairness########The frontrunner in Russia’s presidential race, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin believes the majority side in a political debate must respect the opinion of the minority side, and vice versa.The frontrunner in Russia’s presidential race, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin believes the majority side in a political debate must respect the opinion of the minority side, and vice versa. In an interview with leading Russian papers and networks Wednesday, he also said he was looking forward to fully transparent, free and fair elections on March 4th and would even be prepared to accept defeat, in the event of losing popular support. He said he wanted to gauge the true strength of his political constituency. The registered candidates so far number four and also include the leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov, the Liberal Democratic leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky and the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov. On Wednesday, another three submitted the required signature appeals for their registration. They are the founder of the liberal Yabloko party Grigory Yavlinsky, the billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov and Governor of the Irkutsk Region Dmitry Mezentsev. Yavlinsky was nominated by a national convention of his party. The two others are self-nominees. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 19####Russia: Communists and Left Front Party form a new coalition########They say politics makes strange bedfellows and on Tuesday morning Moscow saw a press conference between the Communist Party and the leaders of the Left Front Party and they announced a new coalition. How will this play politically as we lead up to the March presidential elections in Russia?They say politics makes strange bedfellows and on Tuesday morning Moscow saw a press conference between the Communist Party and the leaders of the Left Front Party and they announced a new coalition. How will this play politically as we lead up to the March presidential elections in Russia? We are joined on the line with Boris Mezhuev, political scientist based in Moscow. Kim Brown Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Communist Party, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 19####Putin in heated debates with media########The forthcoming presidential elections, dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, social inequality and possible ways out of the global crisis were but some issues covered by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin during his meeting with Russia’s media representatives on Wednesday.The forthcoming presidential elections, dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, social inequality and possible ways out of the global crisis were but some issues covered by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin during his meeting with Russia’s media representatives on Wednesday. In the course of a fairly heated discussion, Putin and chief editors of Russia’s top media outlets swapped a number of critical remarks. The meeting, which was held at the journalists’ initiative, started with the outright blunt question of how the prime minister was going to prove to the public that his victory, if he wins the March 4 election, was legitimate and fair. Vladimir Putin had this to say. "I don’t have to prove anything. For me, the most important thing is not to be elected to high office but to be able to resolve problems the country is faced with. I need trust and support from the people. Otherwise, I won’t be able to pursue my agenda. If I didn’t have the agenda for Russia, I would stay away from politics. I want the elections to be transparent and fair. It’s up to the citizens to select an individual person that could be entrusted with guaranteeing Russia’s security and economic development. I’ll try to do my best to ensure that the ballot casting process is fair and open." Until now, journalists were concerned about the absence of a dialogue between the government and the opposition, particularly in the wake of the recent rallies. Journalists wanted to know whether Vladimir Putin planned to meet with representatives of The Fair Vote League whose members include famous writers Boris Akunin and Lyudmila Ulitskaya and prominent journalist Dmitry Bykov. "I’m in favor of dialogue. Boris Akunin, Lyudmila Ulitskaya and Dmitry Bykov refused to attend the recent ceremony in which we were to award them with government prizes in journalism. They insist that the government remains deaf to their demands. We invited them but they wouldn’t come. It’s unclear then what they are after, whether they want to say that there is no discussion, or whether they don’t want a discussion. I for one am ready for a discussion and so are my colleagues. We’ve invited these people to start a dialogue several times. But they never came, not once." Vladimir Putin lashed out at the independent Ekho Moskvy radio for broadcasting critical comments of the government, which were not always fair, the prime minister said. Putin branded the station’s recent round table on the US missile defense system as pure nonsense. Addressing Ekho Moskvy chief editor Alexei Venediktov, Putin made it clear that the government is at odds with those members of the round table who stated that it’s not important how far from the Russian borders the missile defense radars will be deployed. The prime minister reprimanded the participants in the discussion for servicing the international interests of one particular country in its relations with another. His next question to Venediktov came right out of the blue. The prime minister wanted to know who the Ekho Moskvy chief editor was going to vote for in the coming elections. To this, Venediktov said that he had been boycotting the elections since 1996. “You look hurt”, - Putin said. “Yes, I’m hurt”, - the Ekho Moskvy editor admitted. “But you shouldn’t be” – the prime ministers concluded. Svetlana Andreyeva Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, mass media, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 19####Russia’s Election Commission checks signatures########Russia’s Central Election Commission has launched a check up of the signatures collected in support of the presidential candidates, the Commission’s Secretary Nikolay Konkin stated on Thursday. The Commission is checking signatures in support of the Yabloko head Grigory Yavlinsky, independent candidate tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov and the Irkutsk region governor Dmitry Mezentsev.Russia’s Central Election Commission has launched a check up of the signatures collected in support of the presidential candidates, the Commission’s Secretary Nikolay Konkin stated on Thursday. The Commission is checking signatures in support of the Yabloko head Grigory Yavlinsky, independent candidate tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov and the Irkutsk region governor Dmitry Mezentsev. 20% of randomly selected signatures will be checked. The list of the candidates for the March 4 race will be announced on January 29. (TASS) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 20####Putin’s approval rating tops 50% - survey########The approval rating of Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin grew by 4 percentage points to 52 percent in the past week, the state-run pollster VTsIOM said on Friday. Gennady Zyuganov gained 1 percentage point and now stands at 11 percent.The approval rating of Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin grew by 4 percentage points to 52 percent in the past week, the state-run pollster VTsIOM said on Friday. Gennady Zyuganov gained 1 percentage point and now stands at 11 percent. A Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov and Yabloko leader Grigory Yavlinsky lost one percentage point each and now have 4, 2 and 1 percent, respectively. Support for for Vladimir Zhirinovsky has been stable, at 9 percent. Two independent candidates - Irkutsk Region Governor Dmitry Mezentsev and Svetlana Peunova, leader of an unregistered Volya party, have zero approval. The survey involved 1,600 respondents in 46 Russian regions. The margin of error is below 3.4 percent. RIAN Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 20####Russia's independents submit signatures by deadline########On January 18, 6 p.m., was the deadline for independent presidential hopefuls in Russia to hand in the required 2 million signatures to be able to get on the presidential ballot in March.On January 18, 6 p.m., was the deadline for independent presidential hopefuls in Russia to hand in the required 2 million signatures to be able to get on the presidential ballot in March. Dennis Volkov, a sociologist at the Levada Center, says the main independent candidates are Mikhail Prokhorov, a Russian billionaire entrepreneur, and Grigory Yavlinsky, who are not members of any parliamentary party. However, Mr. Volkov goes on, the signatures are still to be verified, so the presidential hopefuls’ field is not determined yet. Crystal Park Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 20####Excerpts from Prokhorov’s manifesto unveiled########The presidential hopeful Mikhail Prokhorov promises the nation to limit the President and the regional governors to two terms in a lifetime, simplify the registration of parties, allow them to create blocs, lower the threshold for winning Lower House seats to 3% of the vote and ban federal and regional lawmakers from laying down their mandates.The presidential hopeful Mikhail Prokhorov promises the nation to limit the President and the regional governors to two terms in a lifetime, simplify the registration of parties, allow them to create blocs, lower the threshold for winning Lower House seats to 3% of the vote and ban federal and regional lawmakers from laying down their mandates. He also promises to cut government spending, reduce the number of government employees by one third, ‘humanize’ the penal system, make the police accountable to the public rather than its superiors who are only interested in good statistics, abolish conscription by 2015 and make military service a freely-chosen profession. Further promises include a general amnesty to the ‘economic’ offenders who have served at least one third of their terms and moves to privatize state-owned companies, including national TV networks. These are parts of Prokhorov’s campaign manifesto as unveiled by Moscow’s Kommersant daily. In the meantime, pollsters estimate the voter support of Mr Prokhorov at just 2%. (IF) Russia, Mikhail Prokhorov, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 20####Big Brother on the side of electoral transparency########Russia is about to become the first country to make its elections fully transparent to the public and easily observable by anyone who cares. On the day of its next presidential elections on March 4th, two web cameras installed at each of its 90 thousand or so polling stations will be relaying the goings on to a dedicated open-access website.Russia is about to become the first country to make its elections fully transparent to the public and easily observable by anyone who cares. On the day of its next presidential elections on March 4th, two web cameras installed at each of its 90 thousand or so polling stations will be relaying the goings on to a dedicated open-access website. The website itself is to be launched in February. The video traffic to it is to be streamed through a secure channel, which will be impenetrable to hacking. We have more details from Deputy Telecommunications Minister Ilya Massukh: "The project is unprecedented in its scale. Some 25 million Internet users are expected to have a more or less close look at the voting process, with up to 1.2 million hooking up at any one time. Each camera can withstand up to 60 thousand hook-ups. The cameras at the VIP polling stations will be even more powerful in service terms. This means that any denial-of-service attacks will be destined to flop." The footages from each of the two cameras are to be stored for possible revisiting. One of the cameras will be covering the room, and the other, the ballot box. After the voting ends, the second camera will be refocused on the counting table. Deputy head of the Central Electoral Commission Leonid Ivlev explains exactly what is to be watched: "When the voting ends at 20.00 local time, the second camera will shift its focus to the opening of the ballot box, the counting of the ballots in it and the destruction of the unclaimed ballot papers. It will also watch the compiling of the final voting protocol, the signing and the sealing of it. The returning officers will be asked to hold the protocol as close as possible to the second camera."            About 46% of the respondents in a recent Russian poll said they believed that web cameras at polling stations would rule out vote-rigging on the voting day.  Lada Korotun Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 21####Prokhorov to sell business if elected President########Billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov has said that he will sell his business and use the bulk of the funds raised thereby for charity purposes if he is elected President in the March 4th presidential election in Russia. The future candidate also pledged to transfer the management of the NewJersey basketball team to a trust fund.Billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov has said that he will sell his business and use the bulk of the funds raised thereby for charity purposes if he is elected President in the March 4th presidential election in Russia. The future candidate also pledged to transfer the management of the NewJersey basketball team to a trust fund. Prokhorov has already made public his election programme, suggesting, among other things, that the Russian President’s term of office should be limited to 4 years. He will also set up a special-purpose agency to fight corruption, an agency that will report to Prime Minister. (Izvestia)   Russia, Mikhail Prokhorov, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 21####Smile: you're on camera!########Russia’s first system of election video monitoring is being installed in Nizhny Novgorod with similar cameras to appear soon at polling stations all across the nation. The cameras will provide live online coverage of the voting process during the March 4 presidential elections.Russia’s first system of election video monitoring is being installed in Nizhny Novgorod with similar cameras to appear soon at polling stations all across the nation. The cameras will provide live online coverage of the voting process during the March 4 presidential elections. The decision to install cameras came after tens of thousands protested in Moscow and across Russia  over alleged vote rigging during the December 4 parliamentary elections. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 21####Russia on the verge of elections########Election campaigning in Russia is gathering speed ahead of the presidential elections on March 4th. While presidential candidates are presenting their programs on television and in newspapers, opposition activists are busy coming up with new methods to ensure fair elections. The Voice of Russia’s Natalya Kovalenko reports.Election campaigning in Russia is gathering speed ahead of the presidential elections on March 4th. While presidential candidates are presenting their programs on television and in newspapers, opposition activists are busy coming up with new methods to ensure fair elections. The Voice of Russia’s Natalya Kovalenko reports. Russia’s non-parliamentary opposition has been particularly active in the run-up to the elections. The Yabloko Party has set up a public fund for monitoring presidential elections in Russia. The fund will rely on public donations and will use the money to pay lawyers and train observers, Yabloko leader Sergei Mitrokhin said. Russia’s politically non-affiliated intellectuals have formed the so-called League of Voters in order to oversee the elections and ensure their compliance with the law. Film producer Georgy Vasiliev is one of the League’s founders. "The League of Voters invites observers, members of election panels, analysts, lawyers, in a word, anyone who can help in ensuring fair elections, to join efforts." Meanwhile, there have been a number of problems related to the collection of signatures required for a presidential candidate to register. The leader of the unregistered Volya Party, Svetlana Peunova, submitted less than 250,000 signatures claiming that it was impossible to collect more signatures by honest methods over such a short period of time. She thereby put a question mark over the honesty of three other candidates – Yabloko leader Grigory Yavlinsky, billionaire candidate Mikhail Prokhorov and Irkutsk Governor Dmitry Mezentsev – who arrived at the Central Election Commission with over 2 million signatures each on Wednesday. The lists are to be verified by January 29th . If approved, these candidates will be added to the three official contenders in the election race which include Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky and A Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov. Putin, Zyuganov, Zhirinovsky and Mironov did not have to collect signatures because they had been nominated by parties represented in parliament. Vladimir Putin, nominated by United Russia, looks certain to lead the election race. This is the third election campaign for Putin, but unlike the previous two, it is going to be hard-to-win, says President of the National Strategy Institute Mikhail Remizov. "In the 1999 and 2004 election campaigns, the campaign’s favorite, once in the race, was the de facto winner. He was at the forefront of the race because he had managed to unite the electorate on important decisions. In 1999, it was the decision to start an anti-terrorist operation in Chechnya. In 2004, it was his decision regarding YUKOS and the nationalization of natural resources. The year 2011 saw none of such spectacular decisions. And even though Putin has good chances to win, this time he will have to fight tooth and claw for the victory." According to VTsIOM, Putin’s ratings have increased from 48 to 52% in the past week. His ratings went up following an article in the Moscow-based Izvestia in which the prime minister outlined his election program. In the opinion of Vladimir Putin, Russia has passed the 'restoration' period and is entering the next stage of development. The prime minister is pinning his hopes on the newly formed middle class to ensure the country’s sustained development. He has invited social and opposition groups to take part in a dialogue and met leaders of national media outlets. Putin’s efforts could be attributed to his hopes to hold the elections without a runoff. This opinion belongs to Deputy Director of the Center for Political Situation Alexander Shatilov. "Putin expects to win in the first round. A second round would force him into negotiating deals with the elites and his political initiatives would be paralyzed." Whether Putin will win in the first round, or in the runoff, there will be people who will claim that the elections were rigged. Nothing will help convince them of the opposite: neither the video cameras which are being imported from China, nor online broadcasts or crowds of observers, says Director of the Institute for Political Expertise Yevgeny Minchenko. "Voters in Moscow and St.Petersburg are unlikely to believe that there has been no vote-rigging if all their colleagues and friends say that they don’t know anyone who has voted for Putin. In this case, the media effect plays a crucial role." Meanwhile, the opposition is planning more protest rallies as a follow up to the Movement for Fair Elections rallies which took place in December. The rallies will be held on February 4th and are due to take place in many cities across Russia. Up to 50,000 people are expected to march through the streets of Moscow on this day. Natalya Kovalenko Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 23####Putin on interethnic relations in Russia########Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin proposed establishing a new state agency on national development and interethnic accord.Interethnic issues have come to the foreground recently, with ethnic Russians growing indignant at the behavior of migrants from inside Russia and other former Soviet republics, whose disrespect for Russian traditions and customs sometimes results in interethnic clashes. In an apparent attempt to soothe both groups, Putin, who will run for president in the March 4 elections, said in an article for the Nezavisimaya Gazeta daily: “I think a special structure responsible for issues of national development, interethnic accord and interaction should be established in the system of the federal power bodies.” Putin’s initiative echoes proposals by regional parliamentarians, who have repeatedly called for reestablishing a federal body strengthening interethnic relations. Earlier the Nationalities Ministry dealt with such issues, while now they are addressed by the Regional Development Ministry, which does not pay enough attention to them, Putin said. The premier said the agency should interact with the president, the government staff, the public and have certain powers. Putin served two terms as Russia’s president between 2000 and 2008, but was barred from standing for a third consecutive term by the constitution. He became prime minister after his handpicked successor, Dmitry Medvedev, became president. While Putin is widely expected to secure the presidency in the March 4 vote, he is facing a crisis of popularity and analysts say it is no longer certain he will triumph in the first round of voting.  RIAN Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 23####Nationalist sentiment grows in the West – Putin########Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin believes that the collapse of multiculturalism is conducive to the growth of nationalist sentiment in the western countries.He points out in an article, carried by today’s issue of the Moscow-based Nezavisimaya Gazeta daily, that the safest of countries that were once proud of their ethnic tolerance are now faced with aggravated inter-ethnic relations and have to admit, one after another, that their attempts to integrate people of different cultures into the society have failed. Closed ethnic and religious communities are being formed in many countries, fueling the growth of xenophobia among the indigenous population. To retain their positions, many European politicians keep playing the national card and actually opt for the idea of coercing immigrants to assimilate. One can hardly be expected to prove loyal to a country that’s placed them in a situation like this, Vladimir Putin says.  (IF)   Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Multiculturalism, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 23####Yavlinsky to be removed from elections – source########According to a source in the Russian Central Elections Commission, the founder of the Yabloko party, Grigory Yavlinsky, will be denied registration as a presidential candidate.According to a source in the Russian Central Elections Commission, the founder of the Yabloko party, Grigory Yavlinsky, will be denied registration as a presidential candidate. The Interfax news agency quotes the source as saying that 26% of signatures in the Yavilnsky-submitted signature sheets are fictitious, which is the reason why Yavlinsky will have to drop out of the presidential race. Given that the admissible percentage of fictitious signatures is no more than 5% for a candidate to be registered, it is safe to claim that Grigory Yavlinsky will be unable to go ahead with his campaigning, the source said. (IF) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Grigory Yavlinsky, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 24####Rotation in store for Russian government - Putin########The Russian government is in for a "significant rotation” after the presidential elections, said presidential candidate Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, speaking at a Forum of the peoples of southern Russia. "That does not mean that we should all disperse. Of course, there should be a rotation, and a significant one at that" - he said.The Russian government is in for a "significant rotation” after the presidential elections, said presidential candidate Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, speaking at a Forum of the peoples of southern Russia. "That does not mean that we should all disperse. Of course, there should be a rotation, and a significant one at that" - he said. However, Putin added, we must wait for the outcome of the elections. The Prime Minister noted that there were both successes and failures in the work of the Russian government. Among the first he named, in particular, a low inflation rate in 2011 - 6.1 percent, and reduced unemployment. However, there are many unresolved problems, such as housing and utilities. (RIAN) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, presidential elections, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 24####Russia’s election commission: we have legal grounds to deny Yavlinsky's registration########Russian Central Elections Commission Secretary Nikolai Konkin announced that around 24% of “faulty” signatures handed in Grigory Yavlinsky could be a sufficient ground for the commission not to register him as a presidential candidate. The number of unaccepted votes by far exceeds the 5% threshold.Russian Central Elections Commission Secretary Nikolai Konkin announced that around 24% of “faulty” signatures handed in Grigory Yavlinsky could be a sufficient ground for the commission not to register him as a presidential candidate. The number of unaccepted votes by far exceeds the 5% threshold. 500 pages out of the first and second samples have been verified so far. 24% of the signatures were declared invalid. Court rejects Yabloko’s demand to void vote results The Moscow’s Presnya District Court today rejected Yabloko’s demand for the nullification of the parliamentary election results at the polling station No. 91, Yabloko’s Boris Kalatsky said. Mr. Kalatsky added his party is going to appeal the court's decision. RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Grigory Yavlinsky, 2012 presidential candidate registration, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 24####Communist leader: Yavlinsky candidate ban 'unlawful'########Russian Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov has condemned the move to bar Yabloko’s head Grigory Yavlinsky from running for president as 'illegal', saying that Yavlinsky had good knowledge of what was going on 'behind the scenes' and would have offered effective criticism of the current economic policies.Russian Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov has condemned the move to bar Yabloko’s head Grigory Yavlinsky from running for president as 'illegal', saying that Yavlinsky had good knowledge of what was going on 'behind the scenes' and would have offered effective criticism of the current economic policies. The Russian Central Elections Commission cited problems with 24% of the signatures submitted in support of Yavlinsky’s candidacy for the presidency of the Russian Federation, with the allowed number of invalid votes currently being set at less than 5%.   Zyuganov said that collecting 2 million signatures was a “hard task.” “We've been there, done that. If you don’t sift out the invalid signatures, which in the first stage make up between 15% and 20%, it will be difficult to prove to the commission the validity of the rest of the signatures,” Zuganov explained. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, 2012 presidential candidate registration, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 24####U.S. to rock the boat ahead of Russia's election - Italian analyst########The United States will attempt to rock the boat ahead of the March 4 presidential election in Russia. A prominent Italian political analyst, Giulietto Chiesa believes that further proof of this intention is the appointment of Michael McFaul as the new U.S. ambassador to Russia and his meetings with the non-systemic opposition.The United States will attempt to rock the boat ahead of the March 4 presidential election in Russia. A prominent Italian political analyst, Giulietto Chiesa believes that further proof of this intention is the appointment of Michael McFaul as the new U.S. ambassador to Russia and his meetings with the non-systemic opposition. In the analyst’s opinion, Washington is following the model it used during the “orange revolution” in Ukraine. But he doubts that the United States is really capable of influencing the internal situation in Russia. (TASS) Russia, opposition, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 25####Yavlinsky barred from presidential campaign########As Russia gears up for its presidential election this march, the field of candidates has already been reduced by one. Grigory Yavlinsky, the founder of the Yabloko party, has been disqualified because the central elections commission said that too many of the 2 million signatures needed for him to be on the ballot are invalid.As Russia gears up for its presidential election this march, the field of candidates has already been reduced by one. Grigory Yavlinsky, the founder of the Yabloko party, has been disqualified because the central elections commission said that too many of the 2 million signatures needed for him to be on the ballot are invalid. Yevgeny Minchinko, director of the International Institute of Political Expertise, says it’s close to impossible to collect such a number of votes in such a short term. Kim Brown Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Grigory Yavlinsky, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 25####Opposition braces for February 4########As the Russian presidential election draws closer, both the candidates and the opposition are putting more energy into their campaign or protest efforts.As the Russian presidential election draws closer, both the candidates and the opposition are putting more energy into their campaign or protest efforts.  The opposition is still in talks with the Moscow City Hall over the route of a For Fair Elections march and rally slated for February 4. The organizers are poised to invite the presidential candidates to join the upcoming event they have already dubbed historic. They have made clear they will not accept any rescheduling. The date is important as it commemorates the largest ever public protest in the former Soviet Union – a march from Moscow’s Kaluzhskaya Square to Manezhnaya Square along the Garden Ring on February 4, 1990, against Article 6 of the Soviet Constitution, which defined the Communist Party as the guiding and leading role of Soviet society. The opposition proposed the same route for the future march. But the city authorities rejected the idea, citing security concerns, and suggested alternative venues. Opposition leaders have promised to consider other options but said that they will not accept the outskirts and would prefer Red Square instead. A member of the For Honest Elections organizing committee, Yevgenia Churikova, recalls the December 4 protest in Bolotnaya Square a short walk from the Kremlin: "That was a wonderful march – past the presidential administration and past the Kremlin. We have proven that a Russian protest is the most civilized protest in the world and that people who take to the streets in Russia are civilized protesters who support each other and make sure no vandalism takes place. We have shown to everyone that we can be trusted." Boris Nemtsov, one of the leaders of the protest movement and a co-chairman of the unregistered Party of People’s Freedom, has said that about 50,000 people are expected to turn up for the February event. "There must be clear priorities as to how the march and the rally should be organized. The first priority is a massive turnout, the second is security and the third is precise political demands." The political demands will be reflected in the final resolution that will include the objectives articulated during the previous rallies in Bolotnaya Square and Sakharov Avenue, namely new parliamentary elections, the resignation of chief election commissioner Vladimir Churov, the registration of opposition parties and the adoption of new laws on parties and elections. The rally’s organizers split on whether to invite all presidential candidates. Finally, it was decided that only those candidates who supported the “Bolotnaya Square resolution” should be invited. Some suggested there should be no speeches at all this time, only a march and a concert.  Participants in the rally will be offered to sign an address to the presidential candidates.  Olga Denisova Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 26####Both government and opposition to change electoral tactics########For the first time in the last ten tears Russia’s presidential elections due to be held on March 4, will take place against the background of protest rallies. It seems like the authorities and the opposition are going to compete in the number of supporters.For the first time in the last ten tears Russia’s presidential elections due to be held on March 4, will take place against the background of protest rallies. It seems like the authorities and the opposition are going to compete in the number of supporters. Both the authorities and the opposition intend to hold large scale meetings on February 4. The supporters of the current Prime Minister Vladimir Putin as a presidential candidate will hold their meeting in the vicinity of near the Kremlin, most likely on the Red Square. Pro-Putin campaigns are also expected to take place in the regions. The organizers of the opposition’s For Fair Elections rally have already agreed the route of their march with the Moscow government. According to the organizers of the Fair Elections rally, the authorities’ intention to hold a rally in support of Putin a meeting in central Moscow on the same day as the march of the Discontented may be regarded as an attempt to provoke clashes among civilians. But holding rallies will not solve the main problem i.e. restoring people’s trust in fair elections. And the government realizes this too. It is essential to introduce tougher penalties for electoral fraud, to give monitors more rights and make election protocols available for public scrutiny. In other words, it requires the “overhaul” of the entire electoral system. Representatives of all parliamentary factions agree. During the recent debates held under the motto “For Fair Elections – an open tribune” they exchanged proposals on how to restore people’s trust in the electoral system. This is the first time in Russia’s modern history that a campaign of this kind has been held. An “Open Tribune,” in the debates’ organizers opinions, is a venue for those who are not indifferent to the electoral process and the fate of the country. As the presidential elections get closer, sociologists observe significant changes in society’s attitude towards the elections and the presidential candidates themselves. According to the Levada Center: at present, 37% of Russian citizens are prepared to vote for Putin. But according to the polls conducted by the All-Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion (VTsIOM) and the Fund of Public Opinion (FOM), Putin’s chances are much higher - 52% and 45% respectively. Sociologists don’t see anything surprising about this and argue that this discrepancy is due to the different counting methods. At the same time, VTsIOM’s poll also shows that about 1/3 of the Russian electorate no longer believe in fair elections. The participants of the For Fair Election debates argued that this figure is very high figure and put forward their proposals how to improve the electoral system in Russia. The Communist party’s leader Gennady Zyuganov was the first to take to the floor. He said his party had already prepared several relevant draft bills and submitted them to the State Duma: "First of all it is necessary to ensure that any theft of votes, or rigging of the results should be deemed as a serious crime and incur a prison sentences and to confiscation of property. The main issue here will be the formation of electoral commissions. Each commission should include three representatives from each of the parliamentary parties." The leader of A Just Russia party Sergey Mironov has even proposed to amend the Constitution. He thinks that the number of terms a president could hold should be limited to twp and that they should not run consequently. He also spoke for bringing back a line “against all candidates” in voting papers. The head of the United Russia’s faction Andrei Vorobyev proposed to grant monitors wider rights: "Monitors should be given the right to be present during the counting of votes. As for the electoral protocols should be put up on the walls and published on the Internet to ensure that they are public scrutiny." Unlike many other countries, Russia gives equal rights to both domestic and foreign monitors. Numerous commissions of international experts are expected to observe the upcoming presidential election. The delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) will be among the first to arrive. Its head Tiny Cox said that democratic changes in Russia were taking place right now. The politician welcomed the initiatives by the Russian authorities to simplify the registration of political parties, to install cameras and transparent ballot boxes at voting stations. Lada Korotun Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, opposition, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 27####Russian presidential field clears as elections draw near########The Russian presidential elections are just a little over a month away. Even a large protest has already been approved and scheduled on Feb.4 calling for fair and transparent elections in anticipation of the upcoming presidential elections.The Russian presidential elections are just a little over a month away. Even a large protest has already been approved and scheduled on Feb.4 calling for fair and transparent elections in anticipation of the upcoming presidential elections. The candidate field has been cleared and we now have a full picture of who it is going to be. The five official candidates are Vladimir Putin, Sergei Mironov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Gennady Zyuganov and Mikhail Prokhorov. Boris Makarenko, the director of Moscow's Center for Political Technologies, a nonpartisan consulting group, believes all of the candidates are the usual suspects who could offer some opposition to acting PM Putin, except Mikhail Prokhorov, Russian billionaire-turned-politician, who tried to lead a liberal party. Crystal Park Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 27####Yavlinsky drops out of Russian presidential race########The central elections commission on Friday ruled to disqualify Yabloko co-founder Grigory Yavlinsky from the Russian presidential race, Interfax reported.The decision to deny registration to Mr. Yavlinsky as presidential candidate was taken by the majority of commission members. The only vote against came from a former Yabloko delegate Yelena Dubtsova. Central elections commission head Vladimir Churov allowed a Pro-Yabloko protester with a placard “We Demand Fair Elections!” to attend the meeting. On Tuesday, the commission announced that 25.66% of signatures handed in by Grigory Yavlinsky were invalid and that he didn’t stand a chance to stay on the campaign trail.  A day before the meeting, the ousted presidential hopeful wrote in his Twitter microblog he believed only 3% of votes to be invalid.  IF Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Grigory Yavlinsky, 2012 presidential candidate registration, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 27####Russian CEC drops two presidential candidates########The Russian Central Elections Commission has officially denied registration to two of the seven presidential candidates, namely to the Irkutsk Governor Dmitry Mezentsev and one of the Yabloko party founders, Grigory Yavlinsky. The decision was made following a check of signature sheets the two had submitted to back their nomination for Russian President.0The Russian Central Elections Commission has officially denied registration to two of the seven presidential candidates, namely to the Irkutsk Governor Dmitry Mezentsev and one of the 0Yabloko 0party founders, Grigory Yavlinsky. The decision was made following a check of signature sheets the two had submitted to back their nomination for Russian President. With Yavilnsky, the Central Elections Commission has rejected 25.6% of signatures, which is by far more than the allowed 5% of incorrect signatures. The presidential election in Russia has been set for March 4th. The registered candidates are the leaders of four parliamentary parties, - Vladimir Putin of United Russia, Gennady Zyuganov of the Communist Party, Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia, and Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal Democratic Party. There is also one independent candidate, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. (TASS, RIAN, IF) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, 2012 presidential candidate registration, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 27####Putin criticizes nationalist campaigning########Prime Minister Vladimir Putin discouraged politicians from capitalizing on nationalist sentiments in election campaigns.  At a meeting with World War II veterans in St Petersburg, Putin said some politicians prefer to make use of nationalist ideas instead of trying to uproot them.Prime Minister Vladimir Putin discouraged politicians from capitalizing on nationalist sentiments in election campaigns.  At a meeting with World War II veterans in St Petersburg, Putin said some politicians prefer to make use of nationalist ideas instead of trying to uproot them. The Russian chief executive stressed that such reckless campaigning could only aggravate the problem, adding that any nationalist campaign models could prove to be fatal for Russia, effectively destroying that multinational state. RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, nationalism, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 27####Putin first in candidate rating########Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin still leads the pack in the presidential campaign. A survey conducted by the All-Russian Public Opinion Research Center on Friday revealed that 49% of the quizzed were ready to vote for him.Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin still leads the pack in the presidential campaign. A survey conducted by the All-Russian Public Opinion Research Center on Friday revealed that 49% of the quizzed were ready to vote for him. Runner-up Gennady Zyuganov polled 11%, Vladimir Zhirinovsky came third with 9%, while Sergei Mironov and Mikhail Prokhorov polled respectively 6% and 4%. Over the week, Prokhorov doubled his supporters and Sergei Mironov added 2%, while the frontrunner prime minister lost 3% of potential votes. Russian presidential elections are slated for March 4. The candidate field has narrowed to five contenders. The four parliamentary leaders are United Russia’s Putin, Communist chief Gennady Zyuganov, Fair Russia’s leader Sergei Mironov and liberal democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky. The only independent candidate is billionaire-turned-politician Mikhail Prokhorov. RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 27####Campaign roundup: a look at candidates' programs########On Friday, Sergei Mironov, the leader of A Just Russia party and a candidate for the Russian presidency in the March 4 election, published an article outlining the key priorities of his campaign program, becoming the last of the five candidates to do so.Analysts now have the campaign messages of all of the candidates out on the table to be able to compare them. The baseline ideas range from the traditional left-wing calls for free healthcare services for all and the nationalization of industrial branches to populist and virtually unachievable proposals like the reburial of Vladimir Lenin’s embalmed body and stripping MPs and officials of their immunity and privileges. Most analysts note, however, that the candidates’ election programs are in effect quite similar in many respects, that their economic aspect is fairly weak and that one literally needs to read between the lines to see if there are any major differences at all. Not a day passes without any of the “five” hopefuls making a televised statement that sparks fresh election debate. The opposition party trio of Communist Gennady Zyuganov, socialist Sergei Mironov and liberal Vladimir Zhirinovsky are traditionally campaigning on left-wing Soviet-era and Marxist slogans of the “all power to the people” and “from each according to his abilities and to each according to his needs” type. Zyuganov promises “new industrialization”, lower taxes in the real economy and a progressive income tax scale. Mironov vows to introduce a luxury tax. Zhirinovsky has been lavishing promises with his usual fervor under the motto “Zhirinovsky! Or It Will Be Worse” spiced up with a bit of nationalist rhetoric and pledges to uproot corruption and drug addition and solve housing and employment problems.   Grigory Trofimchuk, deputy head of the Center for Strategic Development Modeling, remarks, however, no concrete ways of fulfilling those rather abstract promises have been offered. "There are no fundamental differences between the programs of the ‘opposition’ candidates as they like to call themselves. Their programs offer nothing new, no alternatives. Moreover, the programs of Mironov and Prokhorov seem to be absolutely torn from reality and from voters’ wishes. They mostly dwell on the need for polishing the election laws and for bringing back gubernatorial elections and the elections of municipal heads. But Russians don’t find that stuff interesting. That’s why they lose to the frontrunner Vladimir Putin’s program, which focuses on what really worries people." All candidates except Putin propose reducing the presidential tenure and limiting re-election opportunities to no more than two presidential terms. They also propose lifting all restrictions on party activity and lowering the existing 7% election threshold for parties running for the State Duma. Some are calling for an early parliamentary election. Mikhail Romanov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 28####Russian presidential election draws closer########Russia’s presidential election, set for March 4th, is drawing closer by the day. It will be for the first time in the past decade that presidential elections have been held amid major rallies. Competition between the government and the opposition for electoral support is gaining momentum.Russia’s presidential election, set for March 4th, is drawing closer by the day. It will be for the first time in the past decade that presidential elections have been held amid major rallies. Competition between the government and the opposition for electoral support is gaining momentum. The opposition, as well as Vladimir Putin’s supporters are bracing themselves for large-scale demonstrations on February 4th . The protesters have agreed the route they will follow in Moscow on the 4th of next month, with the city authorities. According to the organizers of the For Fair Electionsevent, the authorities’ decision to hold a rally of Vladimir Putin’s supporters in the centre of Moscow on the same day can be seen as an attempt to provoke a civil conflict. Whatever the difference in outlook for the future, both the opposition and the authorities realize that the electoral system badly needs an update, says the Duma deputy speaker, member of the United Russia party, Oleg Morozov, and elaborates. "We want all citizens, all political forces to have the right to control the forthcoming election, Oleg Morozov says, so that we could have, as a result, an effective political system that would develop in keeping with democratic standards." The Communist Party leader, Gennady Zyuganov, said that his party had prepared a number of draft laws and had already submitted them to the Duma. Here’s more from the leader of the Russian Communists. "Vote thefts, ballot staffing should be seen as an aggravated larceny, Gennady Zyuganov says. The basic problem is that of the way electoral commissions are formed. Each such commission should have 3 officials from each parliamentary party." The leader of the Liberal Democratic Party, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, also favours radical change in the electoral legislation. "There should be no early voting, Zhirinovsky says, no voting at home or voting by absentee ballots. Every voter should turn up at their polling station in person, and no one should have the right to put their signature for them." The leader of A Just Russia party, Sergei Mironov, suggested changing the constitution altogether. He says he is certain that a person should be elected to president for no more than two terms, but not two consecutive terms. Meanwhile, the independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov keeps trying to persuade the electorate that he has never agreed his campaigning with the Kremlin. Analysts believe Prokhorov may prove the current Prime Minister’s main rival in the race. But, perhaps, the most sensational event of the week is the ousting from the presidential race of two independent candidates, namely one of the Yabloko party leaders, Grigory Yavlinsky, and the Irkutsk region Governor, Dmitry Mezentsev. Both the former and the latter dropped out of the race for submitting a large number of invalid subscriptions supporting their Kremlin bid. Yavlinsky claims the decision is politically motivated. Meanwhile, presidential candidate Vladimir Putin is leading all of his rivals. According to the VTSIOM All-Russia Centre for the Study of Public Opinion, some 50% of those polled say they will cast their ballots for him. Gennady Zyuganov is securely in the second place with 11% of respondents voicing their wish to support the Communist Party leader. Putin and Zyuganov are followed by Vladimir Zhirinovsky, with 9% of the votes; Sergei Mironov, with 6% of the votes; and Mikhail Prokhorov, with 4% of those polled ready to vote him for president. Tension is growing around presidential election debates. The Prime Minister’s press secretary, Dmitry Peskov, says that Vladimir Putin will not take part in the debates, but could authorize his representatives to speak for him. Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Gennady Zyuganov and Sergei Mironov reacted by asking the Central Elections Commission in a letter to deprive Vladimir Putin of the right to take part in the debates via his representatives. But the Prime Minister’s refusal to take part is basically due to the fact that he is busy acting as Russia’s Prime Minister, and his tight schedule makes it impossible for him to challenge his opponents on television. On January 27th, the Central Elections Commission Head Vladimir Churov delivered a report to the Duma deputies on the December parliamentary elections in Russia. The opposition insists that the elections were held amid innumerable voting irregularities and demands that Churov be fired. But the Elections Commission Head made it unclear whether he is prepared to step down voluntarily. Prosecutor-General Yuri Chaika also addressed Russian MPs. He admitted that all parties that ran for the Duma late last year resorted to vote rigging. The Duma will now set up an ad-hoc inter-factional working group to look into election-related complaints. Ilya Kharlamov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 28####Putin: Election issues must be resolved in line with law########Any issues related to Russia’s presidential elections will be resolved in compliance with the country’s legislation – Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin told reporters on Saturday fielding a question about Yavlinsky and Mezentsev’s expulsion from the presidential race.Any issues related to Russia’s presidential elections will be resolved in compliance with the country’s legislation – Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin told reporters on Saturday fielding a question about Yavlinsky and Mezentsev’s expulsion from the presidential race. On Friday, Russia’s Central Election Commission said that a large percentage of the signatures gathered in support of Yabloko’s head and Irkutsk governor’s candidacies were invalid. Currently there are four candidates left in the race - Vladimir Putin from the ruling Untied Russia, the head of the Communists Gennady Zyuganov, leader of the Liberal Democratic party Vladimir Zhirnovsky, leader of A Just Russia  Sergei Mironov and independent candidate tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 28####Left-wingers in unity bid########The run-up to Russia’s next presidential elections on March 4th is to witness numerous opposition rallies and marches, of which the biggest one is scheduled to take place in Moscow next Saturday.The run-up to Russia’s next presidential elections on March 4th is to witness numerous opposition rallies and marches, of which the biggest one is scheduled to take place in Moscow next Saturday. At a Moscow forum this Saturday, some 300 hundred Communists, Stalinists, Maoists and Trotskyites discussed ways to overcome the differences that have plagued them for the past 20 years and present a united front on February 4th . The leader of the Left Front movement Sergei Udaltsov spoke about plans for much more than a simple electoral protest on the day of the march: 0"Russia’s latest elections revealed a popular shift away from the liberals and the nationalists in the direction of the left. Indeed, the Communists and the Just Russia party were among the biggest vote-winners. An anti-capitalist coalition is emerging, which has the entire Putin system, rather than Vladimir Putin himself in its crosshairs. I believe this coalition has to be guided by clear principles and find a place for itself in the popular movement that started on December 4th . It will certainly join the protests next Saturday, despite the liberals and the proponents of the ‘Orange Revolution’ also taking part. You never make a real revolution in crisp white gloves. This sort of garment is onlyfor funerals. On February 4th, many Russian cities will see large columns of people marching under red banners." Mr Vladimir Lakeyev is the leader of the Moscow branch of the Communist Party: 0"The Communists, too, will join the marches against alleged electoral fraud on February 4th.  According to Vladimir Lenin, the Communists must always be with the masses. At the same time, we must never forget that the organizers of the planned protests – Boris Nemtzov, Konstantin Borovoi, Alexei Kudrin, Mikhail Gorbachov and the like – were once in power and are now unhappy over the poor showing by the right-wing parties in the Duma elections. Yabloko, for instance, failed to make it to the Lower House. So did the Right Cause, which won a meager 2 percent of the vote. The other right-wing groups were not even heard of. All castigated corruption only because they are now removed from its fertile grounds. They want to return to power using bourgeois-democratic catchwords and slogans. The Communists must be on their guard to prevent these gents from regaining sway." Latest reports say there will be two rival sets of marches and rallies on February 4th – one led by the opposition, and the other by the followers of Vladimir Putin. Lada Korotun Russia, Opinion & Analysis, opposition, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 30####Election may shift spring vacation in Moscow schools########Moscow schools have been recommended to shift spring vacation from late March to early March, an official with the Moscow government told the Vedomosti daily Monday.Moscow schools have been recommended to shift spring vacation from late March to early March, an official with the Moscow government told the Vedomosti daily Monday. He said this would make more Muscovites leave the city before the presidential elections, which are to be held on March 4. This information has been confirmed by a headmaster of one of the Moscow schools.  He said that the idea to shift the vacation had been discussed at one of the recent meetings. Considering that it is the authority of school headmasters to define the time of vacation the Moscow government decided not to order but only recommend them to shift the vacation to an earlier time, he said.  (Vedomosti) Russia, school, Russian schools, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 30####United States-Russia diplomatic reset########The United States and the Russian Federation are in the midst of the so-called diplomatic reset. Has this reset been a success? What is the current status of Russian-American relations?The United States and the Russian Federation are in the midst of the so-called diplomatic reset. Has this reset been a success? What is the current status of Russian-American relations? We will talk on this issue as well as on the prospects of the upcoming presidential elections in Russia with Timothy Frye, the director of the Harriman Institute at Columbia and a professor of Post-Soviet Foreign Policy. Download audio file More protests are coming up in Russia prior to elections With the scheduled protest already booked some months before the election day it seems that the Russian people are ready to show their dissatisfaction. The focus of the recent protests in Russia was alleged fraud in the parliamentary elections. But will fraud be the focus this time around? According to Timothy Frye, a professor of Post-Soviet Foreign Policy at Columbia University, it will not because the upcoming presidential elections show little need for any frauds to take place. But even if the Prime Minister Putin wins the elections fairly, protests could very much continue. According to the experts at Columbia University the last protests of this size in Russia took place in the early 90s during the beginning stages of the collapse of the Soviet Union.     Vasily Sushko Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 30####Moscow mass rally set for February 4th########Moscow has now officially approved mass rallies set for February 4th. Protestors are hitting the streets for the 3rd time since the Duma parliamentary elections were held on December 4th  of last year. Bu now Russian officials themselves may have to be held accountable for any sort of election fraud.Moscow has now officially approved mass rallies set for February 4th. Protestors are hitting the streets for the 3rd time since the Duma parliamentary elections were held on December 4th  of last year. Bu now Russian officials themselves may have to be held accountable for any sort of election fraud. Joining us today to discuss the questioning that these officials have undergone is our Voice of Russia Moscow correspondent Anastasia Fyodorova.   Anastasia Fedorova Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 31####Russia's Communist leader urges nation to monitor election########Russia’s Communist leader and presidential hopeful Gennady Zyuganov today called on all Russian parties and movements, including opposition, as well as individual citizen activists to monitor the March 4 election.   Mr. Zyuganov said a new president would most likely be elected in two rounds, adding he expected more support from voters in the second round.Russia’s Communist leader and presidential hopeful Gennady Zyuganov today called on all Russian parties and movements, including opposition, as well as individual citizen activists to monitor the March 4 election.   Mr. Zyuganov said a new president would most likely be elected in two rounds, adding he expected more support from voters in the second round. Running for presidency alongside Zyuganov are Prime Minister and United Russia’s leader Vladimir Putin, A Just Russia’s Sergei Mironov, liberal democrats’ leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky and the only independent candidate, billionaire-turned-politician Mikhail Prokhorov. A survey conducted by Russia’s main polling center VCIOM on January 27 showed Prime Minister Putin was leading the pack with 49% of all potential voters ready to support his candidature. Communist leader Zyuganov came second, polling 11%, followed by Sergei Mironov and Mikhail Prokhorov, polling respectively 6% and 4%.  RIA Novosti Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 31####Two thirds of Russians expect Putin to win first round of election########65% of Russians believe Prime Minister Putin will win the upcoming presidential election in the first round, VCIOM pollsters have said. This opinion is shared by 78% of Vladimir Putin’s supporters, as well as 48-63% of opposition voters and even by 56% of would-be absentees.65% of Russians believe Prime Minister Putin will win the upcoming presidential election in the first round, VCIOM pollsters have said. This opinion is shared by 78% of Vladimir Putin’s supporters, as well as 48-63% of opposition voters and even by 56% of would-be absentees. Russian presidential election is slated for March 4. Among the registered candidates are Liberal Democratic Party’s leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, Fair Russia’s Sergei Mironov and independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov. Nevertheless, about 19% of the quizzed – mostly Sergei Mironov’s supporters (33%) – expect a new president to be elected in two rounds. Elections go to the second round when none of the candidates manages to gain over 50% of all votes.  RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 January 31####Striving for peace or pre-election PR?########2012 will most likely be a difficult year for diplomats all over the world. There still seems to be no foreseeable end to conflicts in a number of Arab countries, and it is still too early to say what the situation would be like when these conflicts end.2012 will most likely be a difficult year for diplomats all over the world. There still seems to be no foreseeable end to conflicts in a number of Arab countries, and it is still too early to say what the situation would be like when these conflicts end. Thus, diplomats still have much to do of what may depend on them for these conflicts to end and to have as few negative consequences as possible. Still, for a number of countries, the conflicts in the Middle East and northern Africa, for all their significance, are not the main topic of the year. The matter is that for these countries – namely, the US, France, Finland, Iran, Egypt and Russia – 2012 is, first of all, the year of presidential elections. As a country’s internal affair, presidential elections, at first sight, seem to have nothing to do with the situations in other countries. But, in politics, everything is connected with everything. In an interview with the Voice of Russia, First Deputy Chairman of the Committee for International Affairs of the Russian parliament’s lower house Konstantin Kosachyov spoke about this interconnection: “It looks like the US, in many cases, undertakes this or that step in its foreign policy – for example, aggravates passions around Iran’s nuclear program or withdraws its forces from Iraq and Afghanistan – not because the real situations in these countries demand these steps, but because they would be a good PR for President Obama. Mr. Obama obviously has a big team of consultants who keep saying to him: if you do this and that, Mr. President, this would be a good step for your image, and this one wouldn’t. As a result, nearly the whole world becomes hostage of Mr. Obama’s election campaigning. At present, there are similar election campaigns in other countries as well, and this also has certain influence on the world’s politics. For example, recently, the relations between France and Turkey have aggravated. France is qualifying Turkey’s actions against ethnic Armenians in 1914-1915 as “genocide”, while Turkey disagrees to recognize them as such. For French politicians, this is also, to a big extent, a PR step before the coming elections. Iran will also hold elections in March, and currently, Iranian politicians are thinking about whether it would be beneficial for their image or not to cooperate with IAEA.” As everyone who follows political events knows, at present, if a country is gripped by a certain internal conflict, both its neighbors and countries situated far from it try to give their recipes on how to settle the conflict – or, sometimes, interfere with force themselves. Mr. Kosachyov believes that rather often, the attitude of a certain country to a conflict in another one is dictated more by secret political or economical considerations than by a sincere wish to help. “It is probably wrong for a third party to support only one party in a conflict regardless of what may happen, but it looks like some countries have chosen this position in their attitude towards conflicts in other countries. For example, in the long-standing conflict between Israel and Palestine, the US has always been on the side of Israel, no matter what. Once, the Soviet Union also supported only one side in this conflict, that of Palestine. Some countries were even more categorical in their sympathies, supporting not Palestine as a whole, but the most radical force in it, Hamas. But now – and I assess this as a good sign – Russia does not give preference to either of the sides. Peace would be in the interests of both, Russia believes.” “And,” Konstantin Kosachyov continued, “Russia is trying to do what may depend on it for this conflict to be settled. I dare say that it is thanks to Russia that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has calmed a little.” “I don’t want to spread apocalyptical sentiments,” Mr. Kosachyov said, “but my forecast is that 2012 will most likely be a difficult year for politicians and diplomats. They would need much wisdom and patience if they really want to make the world more peaceful.” “Russia will also hold presidential elections in 2012,” Mr. Kosachyov concluded. “Let us hope that Russian politicians will not be guided by PR considerations in both home and foreign policy, and that Russia’s decisiveness to bring peace to the world is not somebody’s pre-election campaigning but would last long after the elections are over.” Olga Denisova Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Konstantin Kosachev, Russian presidential election 2012, US presidential elections 2012, Arab World, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 01####Russia counts on foreign countries’ disinterest during the elections########Foreign countries’ constant attention to the elections certainly improves country’ s international image. However Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin expects that during these presidential elections the attention will be minimal.  «The mutual trust will only grow if we stay open and transparent to each other.Foreign countries’ constant attention to the elections certainly improves country’ s international image. However Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin expects that during these presidential elections the attention will be minimal.  «The mutual trust will only grow if we stay open and transparent to each other. That’s why the attention should not be constant, but objective and impartial. I hope this will be the way foreign countries will be acting during these elections in Russia». Second round of presidential elections possible -  Putin Vladimir Putin, Russian Prime Minister and presidential candidate considers that the second round of presidential elections can foster certain destabilization. "I realize that the second round is possible,  this will depend only on  people’s will", claims Prime Minister. "Certainly I wouldn’t have promoted my candidacy if I hadn’t been sure of the victory. I realize though that the second round will be inevitably connected with further destabilization of political situation. However there isn’t anything ominous in it. I’m ready for it and will be able to deal with the second round». He expressed his hope that people, including his supporters, will come and give their votes. According to him, a lot will refrain from voting, as «doesn’t matter whether one votes or not, Putin will win anyways». «No», he said, «this will not happen». Putin to offer posts to opponents Vladimir Putin has told young lawyers aspiring to act as observers during the presidential elections in March that if he wins, he will offer posts to some of his constructively-minded political opponents from the Right Cause and the Yabloko parties. The other presidential candidates are Gennady Ziuganov of the Communist Party, Sergei Mironov of the Just Russia party, Vladimir Zhirinivsky of the Liberal Democratic party and the billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov. Prokhorov is the only self-nominee in the pack. Putin calls for more creativity in Internet debates Russian Prime Minister and United Russia’s presidential candidate Vladimir Putin spoke against censorship in the internet and called on his supporters to show more creativity, using the web as debates platform. When asked about a host of untrustworthy and provocative materials published on the internet and the ways to deal with them, Putin said the internet couldn’t be controlled. He stressed that, instead of cracking down on the internet, it should be used as a platform for delivering a clear and tasteful response. Putin said clampdowns were no way out, adding the only thing the government should do its best to curb criminalization of the internet. Vigorous campaigning proves people’s concern Russian Prime Minister and United Russia’s presidential candidate Vladimir Putin believes that vigorous campaigning Russia is witnessing now speaks for nation’s engagement in the country’s political life. At a meeting with young Russian lawyers, who had volunteered to monitor the March 4 election, Putin also backed the initiative of deploying independent observers at polling stations. The prime minister said it was vital for the government to rely on the nation to solve urgent issues it faces. He said that new Russia’s leaders should be legitimate and should be able to unite the main public forces to deal with challenges together. Putin added he was ready to give all volunteer monitors his mandate. Putin offers mandates to Yavlinsky’s monitors Russia’s Prime Minister and presidential hopeful Vladimir Putin said he was ready to give a required number of mandates to Grigory Yavlinsky’s monitors. At a meeting with young Russian lawyers, who volunteered to monitor the March 4 elections, Vladimir Putin said Grigory Yavlinksy had a professional team, hence the party’s observers must be no less competent. Putin added he was glad to pass over mandates to Yavlinsky’s monitors, given they wanted to take part in the elections process.   Yabloko party leader Grigory Yavlinsky was disqualified last January by the central elections commission, which found a sufficient number of signatures in his support to be invalid. Yavlinsky’s supporters attributed Yabloko leader’s removal to his plan to deploy thousands of observers at polling stations. Accute pre-election competition speaks for people’s commitment and interest According to Vladimir Putin, Russian Prime Minister and the presidential candidate from the political party «United Russia», the accute reaction from the people to the pre-electoral competition stands for their interest and enthusiasm. He encourages the initiative of creating the special «corpus of observers»- the group of young lawyers who will help watch the compliance of the presidential elections with the norms of law. «The initiative of creating such a group is very timely and promising. We all witness the accute political competition in our country; people react to that, which reveals their enthusiasm. They are interested in their country’s development, they want to know its main vectors and the motives of the authorities when they make this or that decision», claimed Putin. According to his words, it’s highly important that the authorities should not only be legitimate, but also consolidate people’s abilities to solve the urgent issues that lie before Russia. «Our future depends on how well we can manage it», said Putin. He also stressed that will be pleased to give the representatives of the «corpus» special mandates- «from the candidate for Presidency Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin».  Putin helped found Right Cause  Russian Prime Minister and Presidential candidate Vladimir Putin said that he had helped found the Right Cause party. At a meeting with young lawyers had volunteered to monitor the upcoming presidential election, Vladimir Putin said that the electoral platform of drop-out candidate Grigory Yavlinsky was “not very realistic, but right in general.” Russia’s chief executive stressed that Yabloko party and Yavlinsky in particular had put forth many positive ideas.   Vladimir Putin talked about the times he met with Grigory Yavlinsky to discuss their view of Russia’s future, adding he took part in founding Right Cause. RIAN, IF Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 01####Webcams as means to curb ballot-rigging########On March 4, 2012, Russia will hold presidential elections. One of the main innovations of the forthcoming elections is video surveillance.0On March 4, 2012, Russia will hold presidential elections. One of the main innovations of the forthcoming elections is video surveillance. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 01####Putin meets with election observers########Presidential candidate Vladimir Putin says he is interested in being seen winning fairly in the elections on March 4th and hopes the independent observers of the elections will help Russia make the poll free and fair.Presidential candidate Vladimir Putin says he is interested in being seen winning fairly in the elections on March 4th and hopes the independent observers of the elections will help Russia make the poll free and fair. He spoke about this in Moscow on Wednesday at a ceremony to hand observer mandates to young lawyers who had volunteered to watch the elections on behalf of his campaign: "The task is to know the will of the people as it really is. I reiterate again and again that I will not be able to discharge my duties as President if I don’t have a credible popular mandate for this. If I fail to win the required mandate, let other people govern the country. I will be happy to help them tackle the challenges being faced by Russia.  Any acrimony on my part is ruled out. I do hope you will help the electoral authorities detect and expose irregularities and violations in the elections. This is a truly noble mission." A young man in the audience remembered how observers from the human rights office of Europe’s OSCE  security organization blasted Russia’s latest parliamentary elections as neither free nor fair, without even bothering to produce any statistics to support their accusations. He proposed to follow the United States in keeping foreigners at bay from domestic elections. Vladimir Putin disagreed: "Openness adds credibility to elections. True, any foreign observers need to be unbiased and honest. As for the human rights office of the OSCE, its jury on Russia’s Duma elections is still out. Many in the US, however, have already quoted this office as criticizing the elections for dishonesty and insufficient transparency. I believe this exposes bias and double standards at work." Vladimir Putin also called attention to the fact that all the 90 thousand polling stations to be opened on March 4th will have transparent ballot boxes and will also be equipped with web cameras focused on the goings-on during the voting and the subsequent ballot counting. Anyone who cares will be able to watch these goings-on in real time on a dedicated web portal. Svetlana Kalmykova Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 01####One month to Russia’s presidential poll########As Russia’s presidential race is heating up, much of the public attention is focused on whether there will be a run-off two weeks after March 4th. In polls, two thirds of the respondents say they believe the winner will emerge outright.As Russia’s presidential race is heating up, much of the public attention is focused on whether there will be a run-off two weeks after March 4th. In polls, two thirds of the respondents say they believe the winner will emerge outright. The front-running candidate in the race, the nominee of United Russia Vladimir Putin is not so sure and says he needs to know the will of the people concerning who goes next to the top Kremlin job: "I do not want to be a President without a clear popular mandate. In the event I lose, let other people govern the country. I will do everything in my power to help them tackle challenges that are facing Russia. Any acrimony on my part is ruled out." The Liberal Democratic leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky believes the winner will be known after the opening round. At the same time, he vows to put up a fight for a better political climate in Russia: "The Russian citizens are sufficiently mature for being awarded the right to enter into a dialogue with the authorities. The latest wintry spell in Russian politics is over. The ice is starting to crack. It is time that we started to build modern democracy in my country." The candidate from the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov believes the elections will go to a run-off between Vladimir Putin and the Communist candidate Gennady Zyuganov. The latter advocates nationalization of the raw materials industries and emphasizes the importance of independent observation at the elections: "My party is vitally interested in transparency at the elections. It has already tabled three bills which if expeditiously passed will make rigging on March 4th absolutely impossible." The only self-nominee for the presidency, billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov says even a defeat on March 4th will not prevent him from launching a new political party: "The elections will provide me with platforms and forums to rally support around my party. True, I am a newcomer to Russian politics. But I intend to stay in it for very long." In the latest twist, Vladimir Putin has announced plans to give important posts to some of his constructively-minded opponents if he wins the presidency. Russia, Opinion & Analysis, opinion poll, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 02####Intl observers to monitor presidential campaign in Russia########International observers are about to begin monitoring the presidential campaign in Russia, the country’s Central Election Commission chief Vladimir Churov said. Sixty-nine long-term observers from the OSCE's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights and the CIS were accredited to monitor the March 4 presidential elections.International observers are about to begin monitoring the presidential campaign in Russia, the country’s Central Election Commission chief Vladimir Churov said. Sixty-nine long-term observers from the OSCE's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights and the CIS were accredited to monitor the March 4 presidential elections.  Five candidates are running for the presidency: the current Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, Sergei Mironov of A Fair Russia, Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal Democratic Party, and oligarch Mikhail Prokhorov. (TASS) Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 02####Prime time for Russian election debates########Russian presidential election debates will be aired on four state TV channels and four radio stations, including the VoR, in prime time,  heads of the major channels stated at the Central Election Commission session Thursday. The debates will begin on February 6 and each candidate will be given a total of 9 air hours.Russian presidential election debates will be aired on four state TV channels and four radio stations, including the VoR, in prime time,  heads of the major channels stated at the Central Election Commission session Thursday. The debates will begin on February 6 and each candidate will be given a total of 9 air hours.  Currently, five candidates are running in the presidential race –Prime Minister Vladimir Putin from the ruling United Russia, the leader of the Communists Gennady Zyuganov, the head of A Just Russia party Sergey Mironov, the leader of the Liberal Democratic party Vladimir Zhirinovsky and independent candidate, tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 02####Vladimir Putin’s election headquarters has agreed to cooperate with the “Voter’s League”########Vladimir Putin’s election headquarters has agreed to cooperate with the “Voter’s League” and offered to send in its representative to mediate their interaction.  Vice chairman of the election headquarters in his letter to the League thanked its activists for the invitation and expressed his hope that this cooperation would secure fair election process.Vladimir Putin’s election headquarters has agreed to cooperate with the “Voter’s League” and offered to send in its representative to mediate their interaction.  Vice chairman of the election headquarters in his letter to the League thanked its activists for the invitation and expressed his hope that this cooperation would secure fair election process. Coordination Board, established within the headquarters, has proposed that “Voter’s League” dispatch its representative to take part in mapping guidelines for further cooperation.  RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 02####Elections: opinion polls and reality########According to opinion polls held by Russia’s leading pollsters ahead of the March 4 presidential elections, half of the respondents voiced hope that the elections would be free and fair, while one third of them did not rule out that the process could be tainted by fraud.According to opinion polls held by Russia’s leading pollsters ahead of the March 4 presidential elections, half of the respondents voiced hope that the elections would be free and fair, while one third of them did not rule out that the process could be tainted by fraud. Almost all of the respondents were adamant they would not take part in protest rallies. In the run-up to the presidential election, social scientists have tried to find out whether Russians believed in honest politics. It turned out that most of the potential voters were indifferent towards the election campaign. Many had not even heard of the League of Voters which recently became the hub of the protest movement. According to the polls, 49 percent of the respondents believe that the elections will be free and fair, while 28 percent do not believe they will. Despite the fact that the opposition is trying to draw greater attention to the planned protest rallies, 78 percent of the respondents signaled their unwillingness to take part in them. At the same time, most respondents urged Russia's authorities to engage in a better dialogue with representatives of the 'non-systemic' opposition. When asked about the possible outcome of the March 4 elections, two-thirds of the respondents replied that they believe Prime Minister Vladimir Putin would win the first round. 55 percent of the respondents said that in the event of a run-off, they would prefer Putin, rather than any other candidate, to win the race. Do these opinion polls really reflect overall Russian public opinion on the upcoming elections? In an interview with the Voice of Russia aired on Thursday, Mikhail Remizov, head of the Moscow-based Institute of National Strategy, said that much depended on the way the questions was phrased. "The Levada Center, for example, asked who people think will become president, rather than who they will vote for, Remizov says. The poll’s results simply show that 78 percent of the respondents express their confidence that Putin will prevail. This confidence, by the way, may well backfire because Putin’s supporters might decide not to vote in the elections which they believe will be won by Russia's PM," Remizov adds. Of course, such polls are unlikely to shed any light on the general feeling prevailing in society. But as far as approval ratings of the presidential candidates are concerned, the results of these polls, which are being conducted in Russia and beyond, are quite correct, Remizov concludes. Analysts believe that it is first of all necessary to ensure the legitimacy and democratic nature of the elections with respect to the presidential candidate who is confident of his victory. As for the League of Voters, it has been billed as an opposition organization which aims to ensure public control over the voting. The establishment of the League of Voters was initiated by prominent Russian writers, musicians, journalists and TV presenters. In their meetings with presidential candidates late last month, the League of Voters' representatives signaled readiness to send observers to polling stations – a proposal that was particularly welcomed by Mikhail Prokhorov’s election campaign headquarters which has pledged to receive about 150,000 observers. The proposal was also lauded by election campaign teams of Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Gennady Zyuganov and Sergei Mironov. The League of Voters expressed hope that sending its observers to polling stations would help tackle election fraud and fully allay the concerns about the vote-counting process. Experts say that the installation of web cameras and transparent ballot boxes on polling stations which has been proposed by the authorities could also contribute to free and fair elections. Andrei Smirnov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, opinion poll, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 02####Russia slams Catherine Ashton statement on Yavlinsky########A statement issued by EU Foreign Policy chief Catherine Ashton on Russia’s presidential candidate Grigory Yavlinsky is an attempt to pre-judge the free and fair nature of the upcoming elections, Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich said on Thursday.A statement issued by EU Foreign Policy chief Catherine Ashton on Russia’s presidential candidate Grigory Yavlinsky is an attempt to pre-judge the free and fair nature of the upcoming elections, Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich said on Thursday. Earlier in the day, Ashton urged Russia to reconsider its decision not to register liberal Yabloko party leader Grigory Yavlinsky as a presidential candidate for the March 4 presidential elections. Late last month, the Central Elections Commission ousted Yavlinsky from the presidential race after it announced that more than 25 percent of the signatures he had handed in were invalid. (RIAN) Russia, World, Russia-EU relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 03####Introductions for the upcoming elections in Russia########Today we are going to talk about the websites that has been set up for the Russian voters in the light of the upcoming elections. Ilya Massuh he is the advisor of the Ministry of Communications and Mass Communications of the Russian Federation.Today we are going to talk about the websites that has been set up for the Russian voters in the light of the upcoming elections. Ilya Massuh he is the advisor of the Ministry of Communications and Mass Communications of the Russian Federation. Ricardo Young Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 03####Russian polling stations to get online video coverage########A website is due to be launched in Russia to present live cam footage from any polling station during the presidential election of March 4th. The portal is due to be launched at 16:00 Moscow time this Friday.A website is due to be launched in Russia to present live cam footage from any polling station during the presidential election of March 4th . The portal is due to be launched at 16:00 Moscow time this Friday. For a voter to get access to the live coverage of developments at polling stations, they must get registered at webvybory2012.ru before March 3rd and indicate the voting stations they are interested in. According to experts, this is necessary to calculate communication channel loads. The system of video monitoring will cover 91,400 election commissions and will be able to provide data to 25 million users. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 03####CIS election monitors gather in Moscow########A CIS elections monitoring mission will start its work Friday, February 3, CIS executive secretary Sergei Lebedev told Vladimir Churov, the director of the central election commission.A CIS elections monitoring mission will start its work Friday, February 3, CIS executive secretary Sergei Lebedev told Vladimir Churov, the director of the central election commission. Russian presidential election is slated for March 4. According to Sergei Lebedev, the commission has already accredited 18 out of expected 40 long-term monitors and is waiting for about 160 short-term observers to arrive in Moscow. CIS member states will delegate their parliament members, diplomats and public figures to act as monitors at the upcoming election. Leader of the CIS mission Nauryz Aidarov asserted that its observers would be impartial and politically neutral. RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 03####Presidential elections in Russia: who will win?########As the Russian presidential elections draw near, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and a handful of opposition candidates are hot on the campaign trail. Yesterday Putin said that he may in fact be facing a runoff election and this is the first time that he has publically acknowledged that he might not win by an outright majority.As the Russian presidential elections draw near, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and a handful of opposition candidates are hot on the campaign trail. Yesterday Putin said that he may in fact be facing a runoff election and this is the first time that he has publically acknowledged that he might not win by an outright majority. We are joined today with Dmitry Polikanov, Deputy Director of the Russian Center for Policy Studies. Alexander Haseltine Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 03####Central Election Commission of Russia registers Prokhorov’s another 18 trustees########Central Election Commission of Russia  registers  another  18 trustees of presidential candidate Mikhail Prokhorov.  Among those there is a number of famous persons - musician Andrey Makarevich, film director Valeriy Todorovskiy and telejournalist Igor Pototckiy. All in all, there are 389 persons  in Prokhorov’s trustee group.Central Election Commission of Russia  registers  another  18 trustees of presidential candidate Mikhail Prokhorov.  Among those there is a number of famous persons - musician Andrey Makarevich, film director Valeriy Todorovskiy and telejournalist Igor Pototckiy. All in all, there are 389 persons  in Prokhorov’s trustee group. Their number shouldn’t  exceed 600 people, according to law. 0TASS Russia, Mikhail Prokhorov, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 03####52% of Russians will vote for Putin########A survey conducted by the Russian Public Opinion Research Center (VCIOM) has raised Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s presidential ratings to 52%, which will allow him to avoid a runoff in the March 4 election. The poll was carried out on January 28-29 among 1,600 people from 138 settlements in 46 Russian administrative units.A survey conducted by the Russian Public Opinion Research Center (VCIOM) has raised Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s presidential ratings to 52%, which will allow him to avoid a runoff in the March 4 election. The poll was carried out on January 28-29 among 1,600 people from 138 settlements in 46 Russian administrative units. The rounding error didn’t exceed 3.4% Interfax Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 04####Media campaigning begins in Russia########Election campaigning in the media begins today in Russia,   During the next month, registered candidates for president of Russia have the opportunity to promote their views on television and radio and in the print media and they can also hold debates.Election campaigning in the media begins today in Russia,   During the next month, registered candidates for president of Russia have the opportunity to promote their views on television and radio and in the print media and they can also hold debates. In accordance with electoral law, election campaigns will have access to free television and radio, as well as the free use of national periodicals. Presidential elections in Russia will be held on March 4th. BBC Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 04####Russian presidential candidates start campaigning in the media########The Russian presidential candidates have started campaigning in the media. Their televised debates and promo clips will be telecast as of today, and the candidates will also put forth their position in newspaper articles, interviews and while addressing outdoor rallies, urging Russians to vote for them.The Russian presidential candidates have started campaigning in the media. Their televised debates and promo clips will be telecast as of today, and the candidates will also put forth their position in newspaper articles, interviews and while addressing outdoor rallies, urging Russians to vote for them. Lots have been drawn at the Central Elections Commission to decide on free TV and radio airtime and printed media space for campaigning. The Voice of Russia radio station, - an important source of information for Russians making their home in other countries, will start covering the election debates on February 8th . The last campaigning day ahead of the election will be March 2nd . The presidential election in Russia has been set for March 4th. (TASS, RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, 2012 presidential candidate registration, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 04####Russia ahead of presidential elections########Russia’s election campaign has entered its final stage ahead of the presidential elections which are just a month away.Russia’s election campaign has entered its final stage ahead of the presidential elections which are just a month away. As presidential candidates increase their public appearances and the election race gathers strength, experts say that judging by the current lineup of the political forces, Russians are unlikely to change their preferences with just one month to go before the vote. Our correspondent Andrei Smirnov reports. This week, the Central Election Commission distributed free airtime among the presidential candidates. Four federal television channels and four radio stations, including the Voice of Russia, will offer the candidates airtime. Each presidential hopeful will have 9 hours of airtime, 4 of which will be allocated to debates. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is too busy to appear in the debates himself. He is sending prominent lawyer and member of the Public Chamber Anatoly Kucherena to represent him at the debates.  About 70 international observers have already arrived in Russia and are getting down to work. All in all, 600 observers from the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights and the CIS countries will be monitoring the elections. On 4 march, Russians will have to pick one out of the five candidates. The five hopefuls include Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, leader of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, A Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov and independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov. Throughout the past week, the candidates have been presenting their programs, holding news conferences and taking part in talk shows. Sociologists have been conducting surveys. Valery Fyodorov, who heads the All-Russian Public Opinion Center, told a Voice of Russia correspondent about the results of the surveys. "Putin’s ratings have been climbing up, he says. On December 10th, 42% of the respondents supported Putin’s presidential bid. Now, up to 52% are saying they will vote for him. As for the other candidates, their ratings remain the same except for Mikhail Prokhorov, who has the support of 4% of voters as opposed to 2% in December." All countries hold opinion polls ahead of elections. Political Center Director Sergei Mikheev says that opinion polls normally provide an accurate picture when it comes to candidates’ ratings. "Public moods tend to be difficult to gauge but the candidates’ ratings ahead of the polls are normally accurate, both in Russia and elsewhere." Russia’s divided opposition is also stepping up its activity. The League of Voters which was founded by leaders of the Fair Elections Movement following the parliamentary elections in December has appealed to all presidential candidates with the request to allow its observers to monitor the presidential elections. All of the candidates agreed. Even though the dialogue between the government and the opposition appears to be working out, certain tensions remain. What the situation will be like after the elections, depends on how transparent they will be, Pavel Salin of the Political Center says. "The reaction of some sections of Russia's society to Putin’s inevitable victory, or rather the reaction to the methods he will have used to achieve it will largely determine the situation in the country. If within a month after the polls we see a spike in administrative resources, there will be a flare-up in protests. However, like the December protests, they are unlikely to cause any substantial damage and will eventually dwindle away to nothing." In the meantime, the polling stations are being fitted with web cameras and transparent ballot boxes to ensure that the whole process is open and fair. Andrei Smirnov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 06####Russia's presidential race hits home run########Russia’s presidential hopefuls will go on radio and television today at the start of official campaigning ahead of the March 4 vote.Russia’s presidential hopefuls will go on radio and television today at the start of official campaigning ahead of the March 4 vote. Every candidate will get nine hours of free airtime on national television and radio to present their programs to the public in a hectic marathon scheduled to end late on March 2 when all campaigning ends one day before the nationwide vote. (Rossiya-24) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 06####Putin publishes 4th article on election program########Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has made public his fourth election program article setting forth his views on democracy and nation-building. He specifically suggests developing feedback mechanisms in government agencies, and discussing new bills and civic initiatives at length.Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has made public his fourth election program article setting forth his views on democracy and nation-building. He specifically suggests developing feedback mechanisms in government agencies, and discussing new bills and civic initiatives at length. The Prime Minister favours the promotion of new ways of involving Russians in national governance, but warns against the anarchy and oligarchy of the 1990s. Vladimir Putin suggests, among other things, following in the footsteps of some western countries and making it mandatory for the public initiatives that are supported by 100,000 or more people on the Internet to be considered by MPs. Putin says in his article that Russians should have the right to assess the performance of functionaries. Also, he has called for fighting corruption by paying functionaries high salaries in exchange for an absolute transparency of their incomes. The article is carried by the Moscow-based Kommersant daily and is posted on the website putin2012.ru. (TASS, RIAN) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 06####Russian presidential candidate debates start today########The Russian presidential candidates are starting their televised election debates today in one-on-one format. The first to challenge each other on TV Channel One tonight will be the Communist Party leader, Gennady Zyuganov, and independent candidate, businessman Mikhail Prokhorov.The Russian presidential candidates are starting their televised election debates today in one-on-one format. The first to challenge each other on TV Channel One tonight will be the Communist Party leader, Gennady Zyuganov, and independent candidate, businessman Mikhail Prokhorov. Lots were drawn at the Central Elections Commission a few days ago to decide on free TV and radio airtime and print newspaper space for the candidates. But those running for president in the March 4th election can also campaign on a commercial basis. (Ekho Moskvy) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 06####Putin:democracy crucial for qualitative state########Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has published his fourth article, this time on democracy and the quality of the state, in the Kommersant newspaper. His first article was an introduction to his program as candidate for presidency, the second was dedicated to the national issue, and the third was about economic problems.Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has published his fourth article, this time on democracy and the quality of the state, in the Kommersant newspaper. His first article was an introduction to his program as candidate for presidency, the second was dedicated to the national issue, and the third was about economic problems. The newly published article spells out Putin’s vision of what is needed to create a qualitative state which would serve the interests of society. Vladimir Putin believes that democracy is crucial for creating such a state but the society has to be prepared for democracy. It’s important, Putin says, that most people feel ready and stay focused on taking part in running the state. At present, the prime minster says, the civil society is ready for participating in running the state while the required quality of the state is lagging behind. This calls for a renewal of democratic mechanisms, Putin says. The article warns against a return to the 90s which witnessed a fierce struggle between different clans and the arbitrary rule of self-proclaimed “elites” instead of a modern state and a free and fair society. Vladimir Putin says that the policies of the 2000s reflected the wishes of the people. The right to work, free healthcare services and free education remain high on the people’s priority list and were guaranteed in full during the presidencies of Vladimir Putin and Dmitry Medvedev. The Russian middle class that has formed over the years has emerged from the isolated world of amassing wealth to cement civil society. Vladimir Putin calls for a political system which would tune in to the interests of large sections of society and encourage the public to take part in the lawmaking process, put forward their own projects and formulate their priorities. Britain has had a similar practice for years. The Internet is crucial for maintaining contact with the public, Putin says. Public initiatives that will gather at least 100,000 signatures on the Internet will have to be submitted to parliament.  In the opinion of Vladimir Putin, the entire vertical of power from municipal to federal authorities has to be upgraded. Local authorities should be easily accessible for the public and financially independent. The federal center should be able to hand over and redistribute power without losing control of the country. In Putin’s words, this calls for a new political conscience which would be aimed at creating better conditions for life, creative work and business. In his article, Vladimir Putin suggests that government officials should be disqualified for poor service and breaching service-rendering standards. It’s important to break the “power-property” sequence and set limits on the state’s interference in the economy, he says adding that the eradication of corruption should become a nationwide campaign. The list of corruption-prone posts should be made and officials who occupy these positions should receive high salaries but should guarantee the transparency of all personal acquisitions, including for family needs. The Russian prime minister has proposed to amend the judicial system so that it no longer relies on punitive practices and so that all court rulings are available on the Internet. In conclusion, Vladimir Putin says that the changes he offers will lead Russia to genuine democracy and sustained development. Alexander Vatutin Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 06####A Fair Communist Russia: Mironov to offer Zyuganov hand of unity########Fair Russia’s leader Sergei Mironov told journalists today he was considering offering the Communist party to form a block. Mr. Mironov said a working group may be set up after the presidential election to lay down guidelines for the future union.Fair Russia’s leader Sergei Mironov told journalists today he was considering offering the Communist party to form a block. Mr. Mironov said a working group may be set up after the presidential election to lay down guidelines for the future union. He stressed that the “unification process” between the two parties was predetermined, since they both shared socialist views, which would serve as the common denominator for future cooperation. “Communist ideology is a matter of the past,” Sergei Mironov explained. This move would allow the two parties to participate in ballots as a single block. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 06####Truth is born of arguments########The majority of Russian political observers believe that the rallies both in support and against Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, which took place in a number of Russian cities and towns on Saturday, are a normal and even positive event. The authorities seem to share this opinion and  intend to take the people’s demands into account.The majority of Russian political observers believe that the rallies both in support and against Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, which took place in a number of Russian cities and towns on Saturday, are a normal and even positive event. The authorities seem to share this opinion and  intend to take the people’s demands into account. These were probably the most large-scale and lively rallies in Russia since the late 1980s and the early 1990s, the time when Gorbachev’s perestroika, which initially started to renew the Soviet political system, finally led to its total collapse. Thousands of people of diverse political views came to this Saturday’s rallies, but, fortunately, no clashes, either with the police or between any political opponents, took place. According to the police estimates, the rally of Mr. Putin’s opponents, which took place at Bolotnaya Square in Moscow, gathered about 40,000 people, and the rally of his supporters at Poklonnaya Hill – about 140,000. However, opposition leaders claim that the police are wrong and that the real figure of the participants of the anti-Putin rally was over 200,000 people. At the same time, oppositionists claim that many people came to the pro-Putin rally because they had been either paid or threatened to be fired from their jobs. The main demands of Mr. Putin’s opponents were to annul the results of the recent parliamentary elections, because they believe that these results were falsified, and to dismiss Vladimir Churov, the head of the Central Electoral Commission. They also demanded a reform of the country’s political system and holding parliamentary and presidential elections ahead of schedule. Mr. Putin’s supporters at Poklonnaya Hill, of course, also agreed that elections should be honest and transparent. But this was probably the only thing in which they agreed with the oppositionists. The current prime minister’s supporters want to see him as president because, as they believe, Communists or a similar political force, if they win, would draw the country into a chaos. “Russia needs a strong president!” they chanted. “The fact that Russians go to rallies can be only welcomed,” analyst Evgeny Mitchenko is convinced. “This means that people feel responsibility for the country’s future.” “The period of apathy which had lasted for about 20 years seems to be over,” Mr. Mitchenko says. “It is also a good sign that people have different, sometimes polar, political convictions. However, there is still a lack of really charismatic leaders on both sides. I cannot call the majority of people, who call themselves opposition leaders and who spoke at the rallies in Moscow, real “heroes of our time.” In fact, this Sunday’s opposition’s rallies differed very little from those which took place in December in protest against falsifying the parliamentary elections’ results. The slogans, at least, have remained the same. As for the demand for honest elections, the authorities have already taken certain steps for the elections to be really as transparent as possible. After all, experts say that the elections’ transparency will be only beneficial for the candidate from “the Party of Power” – Vladimir Putin. On Sunday, the headquarters of all the candidates for the presidency supported the proposal of the League of Voters, which was recently formed by the oppositionists, to accredit as many observers to the coming presidential elections as possible. After all, most of these observers will be the people who took part in the rallies on Saturday. In the future, the same people will probably make the backbone of new political parties. Now, what were the candidates for presidency themselves doing on February 4? One of them, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, was seen at the rally of Mr. Putin’s opponents at Bolotnaya Square, but he made no speeches. The leader of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky, on the contrary, was practicing his eloquence at a separate rally of his supporters (according to estimates, there were about 1,000 of them). The leader of “A Just Russia” party Sergey Mironov and the head of the Communist Party Gennady Zuganov did not take part in any rallies. The first motivated his absence by the fact that, as he believes, “there is no unity among the opposition.” The second didn’t come in protest against the organizers of the previous rally, who didn’t give him a word that time. As for Prime Minister Putin, he spent this Saturday in the Chelyabinsk region, for he believed that a sudden natural calamity, which was threatening to leave residents of a local village without houses, demanded his presence. Analyst Mikhail Remizov says: “I would call these rallies a part of the pre-election campaign. No matter what particular candidate this or that particular participant of the rally supported, they all, in fact, were campaigning for the elections. They called on people to come to the elections, be it even more out of protest against some of the candidates than out of support for another. One thing can be already said for sure – these elections will be livelier and more interesting than in the previous years.” The rallies have also shown that the political system in Russia needs to be seriously reformed. Recently, Vladimir Putin recognized it himself. In his article published in the newspaper “Kommersant,” he wrote: “At present, the structure of the state in Russia is obviously lagging behind the people’s readiness to take part in the life of the state.” In a democratic state, people must have the right to argue with the authorities. “Truth is born of arguments,” an old saying goes. Andrei Smirnov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 06####Putin, analysts discuss advancing democracy########Advancing democracy dominated debates involving presidential candidate Vladimir Putin and leading Russian political analysts when they gathered in Moscow Monday to discuss guidelines and visions in Prime Minister Putin’s latest newspaper article.Head of the ‘Politika’ foundation Dr Viacheslav Nikonov inquired about the meaning and prospects of the proposed constitutional reforms. Vladimir Putin had this to answer: "The main thing I’ve been calling attention to is that Russia, among other things, is an agglomeration of ethnic territories which are all members of the Russian Federation. Ethnically-based parties in Russia would spell a painful death to this Federation. Some time in the future, it would simply split up. As for the regional Governors, the Russian people are sufficiently mature for picking them through elections. True, in the not so distant past many elections for Governor were manipulated by regional oligarchs or even mafia bosses. This must be kept in mind. At the same time, this does not mean that we must continue to restrict democracy at regional level." Henceforward, Mr Putin said, all elections for Governor must be conducted in a way that supposes popular participation while ruling out ethnic or territorial secessionism. Head of the East European Studies Centre Dr Andrei Okaru asked Mr Putin about his vision of his third presidency. The following is Putin’s answer to this query: "During my first two terms, I focused my efforts on creating a political system which would rule out reliance on decision-making by just two or three leaders. I was after a system which would be responsive to challenges and also firmly safeguard national sovereignty. This was my topmost pursuit throughout both terms. Fortunately, we managed to avert the break-up of the country, rekindle economic growth, rebuild the social infrastructure and improve the social safety net. With the post-Soviet reconstruction behind us, we can now move forward. We possess the necessary resources and have also created the necessary conditions for this. We will be working as efficiently in the future as we have worked in the past. I have a political and economic system in my crosshairs which would be powerful and vibrant, successfully tackle challenges and ensure high living standards." Mr Putin also had a few words about the other candidates for the top Kremlin job in the elections on March 4th: "I have been working with them for a very long time and I am firmly convinced that none will sell out the country’s national interests if he gets elected. Prokhorov is often criticized for being a billionaire. His immense wealth, however, has not destroyed his devoted patriotism. Mironov, Zhirinovsky and Ziuganov, too, are all devoted patriots. Their campaign pledges are a different matter. Many are unrealistic and would do much harm if acted upon. By promising to nationalize the natural resources, Mr Ziuganov is trying to force his way through an open door. In fact, Russia already has laws which declare its mineral wealth national property. In promising to nationalize the oil and gas industry - so that companies have to pay fees for extracting oil and gas - Mr Ziuganov is ignoring the fact that most of the country’s oil and gas wealth is in the hands of state-controlled companies like Rosneft and Gazprom. Yielding to Prokhorov’s insistence that all such companies be immediately privatized would create greedy monopolies and send prices soaring. Full privatization and full nationalization would be equally counterproductive, because both would block development." Mr Putin also rejected proposals to privatize the state-run broadcasting networks but backed Prokhorov’s initiative to ban state-owned companies from acquiring stakes in media outlets. Svetlana Andreyeva Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 07####PACE observers in Moscow########A team of observers from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe arrives in Moscow today to  assess preparations for the March 4 presidential elections. During their four-day stay the delegation, led by Dutch deputy Tini Koks, will meet presidential candidates, the chief elections commissioner Vladimir Churov and NGO activists.A team of observers from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe arrives in Moscow today to  assess preparations for the March 4 presidential elections. During their four-day stay the delegation, led by Dutch deputy Tini Koks, will meet presidential candidates, the chief elections commissioner Vladimir Churov and NGO activists. 69 international observers are already on the ground ahead of next month’s vote. (TASS) Russia, World, PACE, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 07####Pre-election debates kick off in Russia########Russian presidential debates have kicked off with Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov and independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov facing off on Channel One, which has slated a series of ten pre-election duels.Russian presidential debates have kicked off with Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov and independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov facing off on Channel One, which has slated a series of ten pre-election duels. On another major state-controlled TV channel, Rossia-1, active campaigning won't be kicking off until February 27.   TV-Centr is going to air five cycles of debates, where Russian presidential hopefuls will spar as early as next week. The campaign period will end on March 3, which was declared the "day of silence." Today’s sparring partners are Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and liberal Vladimir Zhirinovsky. Putin’s press secretary has already confirmed the chief executive won’t show up at the debates.  His representative still remains a black horse for the media. Ekho Moskvy Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 07####1 mln 300,000 to prepare Russian presidential election########Some one million three hundred thousand people are engaged in preparations for the forthcoming presidential election in Russia, the Head of the Russian Central Elections Commission, Vladimir Churov, said during a meeting with professional and amateur photographers in Moscow earlier today. He specified that preparing the election are members of the electoral commissions and monitors.Some one million three hundred thousand people are engaged in preparations for the forthcoming presidential election in Russia, the Head of the Russian Central Elections Commission, Vladimir Churov, said during a meeting with professional and amateur photographers in Moscow earlier today. He specified that preparing the election are members of the electoral commissions and monitors. Churov said that over 700,000 of the overall number of people who will witness the vote-counting represent major political parties and presidential candidates. The Russian presidential election has been set for March 4th . (IF) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 07####Putin calls for greater transparency in politics########Over the weekend, tens of thousands of Russians gathered in Moscow to voice their discontent about Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's policies. Mr. Putin is seeking the Russian presidency again in the upcoming elections in March. In response to the protests, he published his most recent article demanding a greater transparency in Russian politics.Over the weekend, tens of thousands of Russians gathered in Moscow to voice their discontent about Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's policies. Mr. Putin is seeking the Russian presidency again in the upcoming elections in March. In response to the protests, he published his most recent article demanding a greater transparency in Russian politics. We are joined today by Andrei Kinyakin, a Senior Lecturer at Moscow's Peoples’ Friendship University. Kim Brown Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 07####Mass media launch Russia’s pre-election campaign########On Saturday, Russia formally launched the presidential elections campaign, and television debates involving candidates should become its key event. The first round of debates was aired by the First Channel Monday evening. The leader of Communists, Gennady Zyuganov and an independent candidate, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov met face to face.On Saturday, Russia formally launched the presidential elections campaign, and television debates involving candidates should become its key event. The first round of debates was aired by the First Channel Monday evening. The leader of Communists, Gennady Zyuganov and an independent candidate, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov met face to face. The Russian audience has become disaccustomed of public television debates involving political opponents. The first debate attracted the interest of the audience because a leading politician, the leader of the Russian Communist Party, Gennady Zyuganov was to meet with a debutant in the presidential race Mikhail Prokhorov. It is almost impossible to choose a pair of more flamboyant opponents – a Communist against a billionaire who earned his fortune during the privatization in the 90s. Truly speaking, according to political scientists, the debate could not be described as substantial. From the very beginning, Gennady Zyuganov started engaging in personal criticism by describing Prokhorov as a “Kremlin project” and “agent”. Meanwhile, he said that the idea put forward by Prokhorov would be ruinous for the country.  “As a result we will once again get a country which will be torn into pieces, but if we do not change the policy tomorrow and create a real possibility of reviving Russia, on the next day when we lose our nuclear shield we will be torn apart into small pieces as was happened in Yugoslavia, Iraq and Libya. All this is your dirty trick: the global enslaving of Russia by our billionaires and swindlers who are now looting the country. This time, our programme is supported by the majority of voters and you won’t get the job of President,” Gennady Zyuganov told Prokhorov. Mikhail Prokhorov gave tit for tat. He reminded his opponent of the repressions launched by Stalin during Soviet times and crisis of the 80s. However, Prokhorov insisted that nationalization proposed by the Communists would destroy the Russian economy and deprive its citizens of their property. “We have 10 million shareholders and workers who have invested their money in major enterprises. But you are planning to loot them. In fact, among these are many Communists. The country should be ruled by successful people who have everything, rather than those who have sat in the parliament for 20 years and spent the people’s money. Only we can develop Russia. You abandoned factories, got scared and ran into the parliament without solving any urgent issues. We came and took factories where people were not paid for months, cities were frozen and people had nothing to eat. We fed these people but not you,” Mikhail Prokhorov said. According to journalists and political scientists, the first round of debates led to mutual recriminations and there was nothing new in conclusions used by the opponents. Consequently, the presidential candidates are risking loosing the interest of people in these debates. Mikhail Romanov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Mikhail Prokhorov, Russian presidential election 2012, Gennady Zuganov, Elections 2012. Commentary, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 07####Putin meets his campaign envoys########Russian Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin, who met with his campaign envoys on Tuesday, confirmed that that the future government would be significantly renewed. At the same time, he believes that staff leap-frog could be counter-productive. Speaking about the work of the education and health ministers, the premier admitted that not everything had been perfect.Russian Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin, who met with his campaign envoys on Tuesday, confirmed that that the future government would be significantly renewed. At the same time, he believes that staff leap-frog could be counter-productive. Speaking about the work of the education and health ministers, the premier admitted that not everything had been perfect. “There were mistakes and problems,” he said. He praised the Agricultural Ministry, saying that agricultural production had been growing at a fast pace. Earlier, Putin announced that he would propose incumbent President Dmitry Medvedev for prime minister, if he wins the March election. (TASS) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 07####Putin, analysts discuss pressing political issues########On Monday, Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin met political analysts to discuss the ongoing election campaign as well as his political manifesto. In particular, they touched upon such topics as a reshuffle of the current government, a dialogue with the opposition, the situation in Chechnya and other regions of Russia, and other topics.On Monday, Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin met political analysts to discuss the ongoing election campaign as well as his political manifesto. In particular, they touched upon such topics as a reshuffle of the current government, a dialogue with the opposition, the situation in Chechnya and other regions of Russia, and other topics. The discussion was interesting and even heated. Everyone had the opportunity to express his or her views. Political analyst Nikolai Zlobin, who attended the meeting said he had an impression that the meeting was important for Putin himself which he did not try to hide. Mr Putin's meeting with 25 political analysts lasted for about 4 hours. There were some heated debates, in particular on issues like protest meetings, the reasons why the public goes to protest rallies and the laws which need to be improved. Political analyst Andranik Migranyan said he had proposed to restore the' winner takes it all' system.   "The election of candidates from the lists submitted by the parties makes the parliament 'colorless' while the 'winner takes it all' system and local competition would intensify the struggle and in this case we could have interesting and charismatic people in the parliament. Within this group it will be possible to choose candidates for executive power." The discussion also concerned the upcoming presidential elections on March 4 and the first steps of the newly elected president. Vladimir Putin rules out a second round scenario for himself, the head of the Efficient Policy Fund Gleb Pavlovsky says. He is confident of his victory and finds his platform to be the strongest. As for the Cabinet of Ministers it will face changes, Pavlosvky adds. "Every aspect of this issue was discussed in detail except for the names. The point is that staff changes will concern significant part of the main team. The ministries were not named." At the meeting the political analysts were free to criticize the Prime Minister, in particular his recent articles published in Russian newspapers. Putin asked us to share our impressions of his articles and my colleagues and I did it, the head of the Russian and Asian programs of the US Defense Information Center Nikolai Zlobin says. "For example, I criticized some of his articles first of all the articles on economic development and the construction of democratic society. How is it possible to speak about any political reforms in Russia of the article does not contain any single word about the State Duma?" The Prime Ministers and his critics spent a lot of time discussing the meetings of the opposition, first of all on Bolotnaya Square in Moscow. Some participants said that the meetings had gathered the middle class representatives others on the contrary said that only few people represented the middle class and the crowd was not homogeneous. The third quoted an article by Valery Fadeyev, the editor in chief of the Expert magazine, who called the meeting a “postmodernism gathering”.  As for Putin he said he wants the people who came to the meeting lay down exactly what they want from the authorities. The discussions on the meetings of the opposition, proposals on the improvement of the legislation and criticism of the presidential candidate’s platform all this shows that the government is ready to solve the current problems together with the people. There will come new times, new people, new ideas, Andronik Migranyan said. Putin understands that the government should be open and capable of correcting its own mistakes, which is impossible without a dialogue with society, he added. Svetlana Andreyeva Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 07####Russia 'not indifferent to Syrian problem' - Russian presidential candidates########Russian presidential candidiates Vladimir Zhirinovskiy, Gennady Zyuganov and Mikhail Prokhorov outlined their positions concerning the situation in Syria. Vladimir Zhirinovskiy believes that Russia should support Syria to minimize the pressure exerted on it by the United Sates of America. According to him, it would be a mistake to try to persuade Syrian President Bashar al-Asad to surrender.Russian presidential candidiates Vladimir Zhirinovskiy, Gennady Zyuganov and Mikhail Prokhorov outlined their positions concerning the situation in Syria. Vladimir Zhirinovskiy believes that Russia should support Syria to minimize the pressure exerted on it by the United Sates of America. According to him, it would be a mistake to try to persuade Syrian President Bashar al-Asad to surrender. Gennadiy Zyuganov, Leader of Russia's Communist Party, believes that Syrian President shouldn’t resign of his own free will. He said that last year, the Presidium of the Central Committee of the Communist Party made a special statement on the situation in Syria. It was noted that "the constant pressure exerted on Syria, the interference in its internal affairs are carried out under the hypocritical and cynical pretext of promoting human rights and democracy." Mikhail Prokhorov argues that Russia should firmly tell the Syrian President that the shelling of the city by government tanks is unacceptable. At the same time, he stressed that the information about the situation in Syria should come from "independent sources, not from the channels belonging to the sheikhs of Qatar and Kuwait, as those are not democratic and liberal states." Prokhorov also pointed out that he had no particular inclination towards either Syria's incumbent regime or the opposition. RIAN Russia, World, Syria, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian-Syrian relations, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 07####Ruling party should engage in dialogue with opposition########The Voice of Russia presents “A Talk with Konstantin Kosachev”, a new weekly talk show hosted by Deputy Chairman of the State Duma International Committee Konstantin Kosachev.Hello, my friends. I’m very happy to greet you from Russia on the radio station the Voice of Russia. And this is one of my first programs. My name is Konstantin Kosachyov, I’m the member of the Russian Parliament and the member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Thinking about how to arrange my dialog with you, my dear listeners, I came to a conclusion that probably the most interesting angle to take as a part of our discussion would be events which caught most attention out in the world with Russia involved. And out of these events I would like to pick up issues the reaction on which is less justified and issue on which me personally and my interlocutors would possibly have an interesting point of view discussing things from inside of Russia. These days, I believe, two major events in which Russia is being frequently named are - the draft resolution on Syria which was vetoed by Russia and China in the Security Council recently, and the continuing protest and anti-protest actions in Moscow within the framework of the ongoing presidential campaign. And just to remind you the presidential elections are to take place on the 4th of March which is less than one month from now. Starting from Syria, I believe that Russia is now one of the very few countries in the world that continues to take efforts in order to promote political dialog with this country. Many people would prefer to believe that Russia is trying to protect some specific interests in this country – commercial interests, political interests, military interests. Yes, each country does have it’s own interest elsewhere in the world but I believe that the major motivation for Russia is definitely not any specific interest in Syria but our concern is that simply forcing the Assad’s regime to resign we would violate the international law, we would interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign country and we are not entitled to do that. Our position, as a member of international community, as long as there are some slight prospects for a political process in this or that country, -  to support and to promote this political process. And this is how Mr. Lavrov together with Mr. Fratkov, who is in charge of our Intelligence Service, were instructed by the Russian President Mr. Medvedev - to go to Damascus and to speak to Mr. Assad in order to convince him to continue this political dialog with the opposition. I believe that this visit was a successful one regarding very sincere and serious signals from Mr. Assad which will be sent over to the opposition in Syria and hopefully that will restart the political dialog in this country. The situation in Syria is completely different from the situation in Russia but probably there is one very small similarity – the reaction of the outer world concerning Syria and Russia that sometimes is very much alike. In that sense many other countries would try to send certain messages to the opposition either in Syria or in Russia that the situation in this or that country is abnormal, that the political process is on the brink of collapse, that no dialog with the ruling authorities is needed, the only thing which is needed is the revolution.  And this message has been sent frequently to the people of Syria during the recent months and I’m afraid that the same kind of message has been sent to the Russian opposition during the last months in order to provoke protest movements in our country as well. And this is one unfortunate similarity which I can single out comparing the situations in Syria and in Russia. And to discuss the situation in Russia I have invited today a special guest Mr. Sergey Zheleznyak who is also the member of the Russian Parliament, a colleague of mine. He is the First Deputy Secretery General of the ruling party in Russia – the United Russia Party and due to that he is very much involved in the political life of Russia within the framework of the presidential campaign, within the previous framework of the parliamentary election campaign and within the more general framework of the political activities in Russia. Sergey, thank you very much for joining us. And my first question to you would be the following. As a member of the Russian Parliament, do you feel any inconveniences with your current activities in the Parliament? Because the protestors on the Russian streets have been calling upon the different political parties, which got into the Russian Parliament, to reject their mandates, to protests against the so called falsification during the recent parliamentary elections. How does the newly elected Russian Parliament function now? Do you feel any abnormality in this situation? Do you see any abnormal aspects in your resumed activity in the Russian State Duma now? Good evening! Thank you for the question. I want to share my view on this. I would say that the Parliament is working. I think a major goal for any Parliament around the world and for the Russia Parliament as well – is the working process concerning laws, concerning solving the problems of our citizens. And now it is taking more efforts. There are a lot of discussions and even the last weekend was marked with a lot of protest activities and supporting activities around Russia. To be precise there were more than 60 regions involved.  In Moscow more than 200 000 people participated in two major meetings – protests on Bolotnaya Square, and on Poklonnaya Mountain where gathered the supporters of Mr. Putin and modern way of moving Russia forward. Protestors on Bolotnaya Square were mostly liberals but also there were nationalists, communists and a lot of other people. And the key word of any process now is - the dialog. Talking about Syria, talking about, talking about any country around the world – the dialog is a necessary component – a key process for solving any kind of a problem, without the dialog it is absolutely impossible. Our activity in the Parliament is aimed on setting up this dialog - with the opposition, with any public force in the society, to discuss the problem, try to find the way how to solve it and finally resolve it together. We will come back to the issue of the protest movements a little bit later. But again the Parliament, despite of these protests does work as it should – it is functioning and all political parties which are elected to the Parliament participate in its daily activities. Absolutely so. No member of the Parliament from any political party rejected the mandate. And today there was a huge and a very important discussion about the fighting with pedophilia and other sexual crimes against our kids. Unfortunately this is a very important issue for Russia and as far as I can see this draft law which was approved by the State Duma today does include the best solutions and practices which were previously worked out in the international community. In the Parliament we have three out of five candidates to the presidential position. Does it anyhow affect the daily activities in the Parliament? Do these three candidates try to use their positions in order to promote electoral interests now? Yes, sure. I mean Mr. Zyuganov from the Communist Party, Mr. Zhirinovsky from the Liberal-Democratic Party and Mr. Mironov from Just Russia – they are the members of the Russia Parliament. It is absolutely normal that they try to use their positions in the Parliament for promoting their ideas, to share their views on the ways of establishing the new process of development in Russia and how to solve the problems. It is absolutely normal, it is a part of the political life. Now maybe the discussions are a little bit more heated. And for example today there was a very sharp discussion between Mr. Zhirinovsky and Mr. Vorobyov who is the head of our faction in the State Duma but it’s ok. Emotions are part of the political life but what we are trying to accomplish is a very thorough discussion on solving the problems which really concern our people. It is the major task for the Parliament and if we will use it just for promotion of ourselves – it is not enough, it is not what our people expect to see. The Parliament is a place where problems should be solved. Ok, you as a representative of United Russia Party, could you help us and clarify the situation with which some people feel certain confusion. The United Russia Party has nominated Mr. Putin as its candidate for presidency and still we have the so called people’s front which united certain nongovernmental organizations and United Russia participates in this movement which is now much more active in terms of the presidential campaign of Mr. Putin. Does United Russia Party participate in this presidential campaign and in what form? Sure, we actively participate in this process. But in comparison with the Duma election campaign, the presidential election campaign is much more personal and it should be supported by a wider range of people. And for example if we have up to 2 million members of the United Russia Party who support Mr. Putin for sure and we also have 30 million labour public organizations which also support him. And we have the Women Union of Russia as well, and it is a half of the population of Russia – dozens of millions and they also support Mr. Putin. That is why active participation of each organization is not even normal but is needed to achieve the result. And we will try to do our best together to help our candidate to win in the first round. The ongoing campaign is being monitored very attentively from abroad. And of course we receive many comments concerning this campaign some of which are constructive and demand to sustain fair and democratic approach to this election but sometimes I believe the comments are more like an interference in the campaign – like the appeal of Catherine Ashton the Foreign Minister of the European Union demanding the Central Election Committee to register as a candidate Mr. Yavlinsky. We have heard defined statements of Russian law enforcement bodies that some videos from the parliamentary elections come from a certain Internet address in the United States. We also can assume that some nongovernmental organizations in Russia are directly financed from abroad now. Does United Russia Party take it seriously? What was the reaction on the recent statement by Mr. McCain addressed to Mr. Putin comparing these situations in Russia and in Syria? Does it irritate people here in Russia, people like you for example? We are a young democracy and maybe it is the reason why some people prefer to act like teachers. And we are ready to accept some views but we are not ready to act under somebody’s control or will. We are an independent country. We have more than a thousand year history. We have 140 million people with a very high level of education and culture. We are ready to listen to what other people want to share if it not assaulting or offending. But whether to accept or not – it is our decision and nobody have the right to dictate. Talking about Mr. McCain, I think he is just not polite, it’s not a question of the sense in his statement but a question of the way how it was presented. And if to speak about international observers, I think that it’s very good that they are participating in our presidential election campaign and they will see how we are moving forward. Our decision to install the web-cameras to provide on-line translation of the situation on every election center and invitation of different internal observers from various parties and NGOs to participate in the election – is a very serious step ahead. And our candidate as the strongest candidate in this election campaign doesn’t try to ignore it, he wants to promote it as much as other candidates. This week we will have several international observation groups coming to Russia. As far as I was informed in my recent program by the representative from the Central Electorate Committee – the invitations were issued to all interested international organizations, there are no obstacles for the international observation. But there is one fact which I was a little bit surprised to know during my discussions with parliamentary colleagues from the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. The presidential elections in Russia are direct elections – people vote directly for this or that candidate. In the Council of Europe there are 46 countries and only in 22 of them, less than a half, the Head of the State is being elected directly by people. In 12 more countries the Head of the State is elected indirectly – by the Parliament. In 12 more countries there are monarchies or like in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Switzerland there is a very much complicated system… It is a kind of a rotating scheme. Yes. And I know that we have presidential and parliamentary republics, and monarchies and so on and so forth but I believe that the way we elect the president in our country – by general voting, directly by people, - it is the most democratic form of presidential elections in any case. We are inviting observers to monitor it and I believe that we should also remind them that Russia is the one of a very few countries in Europe with this high level of democracy when people have a right to vote for this or that candidate. And coming back to the protest meetings. The latest meeting on Poklonnaya, which gathered supporters of Mr. Putin, not just them, but of course the majority of them were his supporters, people who wanted to protest against the so called “orange revolution” in Russia. As far as I can see that was the biggest gathering of people who support Mr. Putin during the last months. How could it happen that people decided to come to this square? Because people don’t want to see the revolution on our land. I think that it is a very, very deep feeling of our people because we are very exhausted with any kinds of revolutions. We have a very, very dramatic past and we don’t want to see that in future because for Russia, and I think it is more or less the same as in any other country, revolution  - it is a mess, it’s blood, it’s a very tragic moment of history and we should do whatever we can to stop any provocation, to stop forces which want to rise the revolutionary feelings and movements. We should be open, transparent and provide a prominent dialog with the society. And we should change ourselves and adopt our society for the conditions of the modern world that is changing very quickly. And for example if there was a social standard which was absolutely normal a few years ago - now it is not enough. We have a growing middle class which is not agreeing to the passive role and people want to participate more, and we should give them such possibility on any level from the observation of election campaign to active participation in the open government where the initiative group of people in the Internet will be taking part in the law changes. Now Mr. Putin offered such initiative to the Parliament and it is ok. We are living in a very fast moving and changing world. And my last question. I believe that one slogan which unites people coming to this or that demonstration in Moscow is that everyone wants to have fair elections. Is the United Russia Party behind that slogan and are you ready to fight for free, fair, democratic elections in Russia? We are absolutely for fair, transparent, democratic elections. We are sure in the possibility if our candidate to win and want to make it very clear. Thank you very much. Sergey Zheleznyak First Deputy Secretary General the United Russia Party, member of the Russian Parliament was our special invited guest today. Thank you very much, see you in one week. Konstantin Kosachev Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, United Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 07####Almost 500 envoys to campaign on Putin's behalf########On Tuesday, Russian Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin met his campaign representatives. He spoke about the problems facing Russia at this stage and outlined what needed to be done in the coming years, while also expressing confidence that the majority of Russians would support him.On Tuesday, Russian Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin met his campaign representatives. He spoke about the problems facing Russia at this stage and outlined what needed to be done in the coming years, while also expressing confidence that the majority of Russians would support him. The supporters, in turn, wished him every success in winning the first round. Earlier, the Central Election Commission registered a list of 499 representatives who will campaign on behalf of, and in support of, presidential candidate Putin. They included prominent public figures, artists, musicians, scientists, athletes, movie stars and famous theater actors – film director Nikita Mikhalkov, violist and conductor Yuri Bashmet, pianist Denis Matsuyev, football player Andrei Arshavin, to name but a few. Earlier, Putin decided it would be inappropriate for him to conduct his own presidential campaign while he remains the country's Prime Minister. Addressing his representatives, Putin said there were different people who were often critical of the government. But he argued that this was, in fact, an advantage: "This means that we will have a lively discussion and will try and find the most effective route for our country's development. What else is very important is that those who have gathered here are prepared to hold a serious talk on our homeland’s future, without any buffoonery and political juggling, and that you want our country to develop in a successful and sustainable way. We are open for any discussion." Putin briefly summed up what had been achieved and outlined future priorities: "To create an effective civil society, attention should be focused on the development of state and democratic institutions. And still more attention should be given to the social sphere, healthcare and education, the latter being the main driving force in the modern world. More needs to be done to strengthen our national security, modernize our armed forces and defense-industrial complex and ensure food security." Putin said that he respected his rivals but that most of their ideas were unrealizable and even harmful. A new remake of the revenue distribution system would have dramatic consequences for Russia, he said. He added that he preferred not to make promises that he knew he would not be able to keep. Commenting on the fast-pinning campaign race, he said as follows: "It’s good that we have opponents. True, the level of our political culture is still a bit too low. But we have a political process which is taking place within the framework of competitive struggle, and it’s a good sign. I am confident that the majority of our citizens will support us." During the three-hour meeting, Putin fielded dozens of questions from the audience. Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 08####PACE monitors Russian presidential election campaign########The Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly (PACE) mission is starting to monitor the Russian presidential election campaign.The five-strong delegation is led by the leader of the PACE United Left, Tini Kox. According to a spokesman for the Assembly, the mission will assess Russia’s electoral legislation, as well as the campaign in the run-up to the March 4th election. The monitors will also meet with the presidential candidates. The bulk of the 30-man strong PACE delegation is due to arrive later this month. 69 of the 600 accredited international observers from the CIS, SCO and the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights have already got down to monitoring the election campaign. (TASS) Russia, World, PACE, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 08####Supreme Court leaves Yavlinsky out of the race########Russia’s Supreme Court has upheld the decision by the Central Electoral Commission to deny the leader of the liberal Yabloko party Grigory Yavlinsky the right to stand for President in the elections on March 4th on the grounds that too many entries in the public signature appeal in support of his candidacy had proved to be invalid.Russia’s Supreme Court has upheld the decision by the Central Electoral Commission to deny the leader of the liberal Yabloko party Grigory Yavlinsky the right to stand for President in the elections on March 4th on the grounds that too many entries in the public signature appeal in support of his candidacy had proved to be invalid. The proportion of the invalid entries amounted to 26%. This leaves only five candidates in the race. They are Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist leader Gennady Ziuganov, the Liberal Democratic leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov and billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, 2012 presidential candidate registration, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 08####Medvedev issues instructions on ‘transparent government’########President Medvedev has set up a committee of ministers, academics and businessmen for thrashing out proposals on how to bring about what he calls ‘transparent government’. The requested proposals are to be submitted to him before April 15th.President Medvedev has set up a committee of ministers, academics and businessmen for thrashing out proposals on how to bring about what he calls ‘transparent government’. The requested proposals are to be submitted to him before April 15th . Appearing before some of the members of the commission in Moscow Wednesday, he said the next Russian administration, which will emerge after the presidential elections on March 4th, must get feedback from all civil society groups. 0(TASS) Russia, government, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 09####Vladimir Putin meets representatives of various Russian religions########On February 8th Prime Minister Vladimir Putin met with representatives of the various Russian religions as part of his presidential campaign. Why is he doing this? And what will he gain from that?On February 8th Prime Minister Vladimir Putin met with representatives of the various Russian religions as part of his presidential campaign. Why is he doing this? And what will he gain from that? We will discuss this and other related issues with Ivar Maksutov, Editor-in-Chief of Religion.ru and Lecturer at the Center for Religious Studies and the Russian State University for Humanities. Download audio file Vladimir Putin: elections should be transparent Vladimir Putin meets with his European monitors for the upcoming presidential elections. He seems to be quite open to have as many monitors as possible to make sure that this presidential election is not seen as the last election was. As was previously announced there will also be cameras at the roughly 90 000 voting sites as well as transparent ballot boxes. Is this effort going to help Vladimir Putin to become the next president? We will discuss this and other issues with Alexander Rahr, Director of the Russia, CIS, German Council on Foreign Relations.     Ricardo Young Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Religion, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 09####Debates on debates########The Russian presidential race is in full swing with not a day passing without heated discussions on TV and radio channels, while analysts are pondering about whether campaigning on radio and television is more effective than on the Internet.The Russian presidential race is in full swing with not a day passing without heated discussions on TV and radio channels, while analysts are pondering about whether campaigning on radio and television is more effective than on the Internet.  Four of the five registered presidential candidates - Gennady Zyuganov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Sergei Mironov and Mikhail Prokhorov - have already faced one another live on TV. Candidate Vladimir Putin will not take part in TV debates in person and has entrusted this task to his campaign representatives. His rivals were visibly disappointed. Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky, who was confronted by Natalya Narochnitskaya, the head of the European Institute for Democracy and Cooperation and one of Putin’s election envoys, on Channel 1 a couple of days ago, went fuming in his trademark manner over not being able to engage in polemics with Putin himself and accused Channel 1 of censorship. Billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov first refused to debate with Putin’s representatives, but then said he might if his ‘vis-à-vis’ is a “bright personality”.   Communist Party head Gennady Zyuganov, despite being critical of Putin’s decision, said he would not refuse because not a second of air time should be wasted. Leader of A Just Russia party Sergei Mironov will probably stay away from most TV debates and has promised to send his own representatives to challenge Putin’s. Earlier, he delegated his party ally, State Duma Deputy Semyon Bagdasarov, to a debate with Zhirinovsky. Mr. Putin’s press-secretary Dmitry Peskov explained why the prime ministers won`t join TV debates between presidential candidates. He said that if Mr. Putin decided to take part in the debates, he would have to go on leave as the country’s prime minister, which is not the right thing to do in view of Mr. Putin’s packed schedule. Prime Minister and presidential candidate, Putin said that he would send envoys to speak on his behalf during the debates. The Central Election Commission says there is nothing illegal about Mr. Putin’s decision. Long before the election campaign started, journalists and experts discussed whether TV debates can improve or spoil the candidates` approval ratings. Besides, more and more Russians now prefer the Internet to TV and radio. The head of the Democracy StudiesFoundation(FIPD), Maxim Grigoryev, commented on the issue in an interview with the VoR. "There is a clear distinction between social classes and the media people prefer: middle class citizens, who are mostly critical towards the government, prefer the Internet, while the rest of the population watches TV. So, those who do not watch TV, won`t see the debates anyway."  Experts believe that TV debates cannot change the people`s minds dramatically. Only those who are not going to vote for Putin and will be choosing between four candidates, may be affected by the way TV debates unfold. Meanwhile, those who are determined to cast their votes for Putin will hardly change their minds irrespective of the debates. Igor Siletsky Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 10####Competition for ability to listen########Dmitry Babich, RIA Novosti News Agency political observer.0I think that Putin is competing with opposition for the image of a democratic leader, so I think the message that Putin wanted to convey by his article is that he is actually more capable of listening to people than the opposition leaders who pretend to be the expression of the people’s will. So, basically the whole article that Putin published in Kommersant Daily is devoted to that problem: how do we make the state democratic, how do we make the state officials listen to people and take their views into account. So, basically there is a certain competition for the ability to listen to an average citizen - that’s what is going on, and that’s a very good development. So, we’ll see what happens but so far it was not even Putin’s strength but rather the weakness of the opposition that made a lot of people make their choice for Putin because the opposition candidates and the opposition parties failed to come up with the single candidate and what is worse they failed to come up with the single program. Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Interview, rallies For Fair Elections, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 10####Web cameras going up in Russia's polling stations########30 percent of the polling stations in Russia have already been equipped with web cameras ahead of the upcoming presidential elections, Deputy Communications Minister Ilya Massukh said during his meeting with Russian lawmakers in Moscow on Friday.30 percent of the polling stations in Russia have already been equipped with web cameras ahead of the upcoming presidential elections, Deputy Communications Minister Ilya Massukh said during his meeting with Russian lawmakers in Moscow on Friday. He added that in Russia’s remote regions, engineers have to use satellite channels in order to install web cameras which were earlier proposed by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin in connection with the opposition’s allegations about mass fraud during last year’s parliamentary elections in Russia. The Russian PM also urged the installation of transparent ballot boxes to prove that the March 4 election will be free and fair. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 11####Russia's presidential contenders unveil policies and objectives########Russia’s presidential campaign is gathering pace. Even though its launch coincided with rallies held in support and against the incumbent authorities on February 4th, protest moods seemed to have vanished into thin air as the week progressed and as all five presidential candidates unveiled election manifestos and lashed out at opponents.Russia’s presidential campaign is gathering pace. Even though its launch coincided with rallies held in support and against the incumbent authorities on February 4th, protest moods seemed to have vanished into thin air as the week progressed and as all five presidential candidates unveiled election manifestos and lashed out at opponents. The leaders of two main opposition parties Gennady Zyuganov and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, who head the Communist Party and the Liberal Democratic Party respectively, refrained from arguing with one another in the course of TV debates this week. Instead, they concentrated on their manifestos and criticized the policies pursued by the incumbent government headed by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. Both Zyuganov and Zhirinovsky were critical of the current situation in Russia. But according to Zhirinovsky, noone, not even Mr Putin, knows what measures should be taken for the situation to improve. "Putin will find it difficult to answer this question. He has been in power since August 1999. He might not be to blame for everything personally but a lot of what has happened over 13 years of his rule has been negative." Mr Putin, however, is unlikely to share this view. Throughout the week, he has been sharing his policies with potential voters at meetings, in speeches and newspaper articles. As he addressed the Congress of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Putin urged the businessmen to stop arguing about the legitimacy of privatisation which took place in the '90s and get down to finding a solution to the problem. As a possible solution, the Russian prime minister proposed introducing a one-off fee which would compensate for any excess profits from the privatization program of the 90s. In addition, he proposed a number of concrete steps to improve and modernise Russia's legislation and government institutions. Putin’s proposal to introduce a tax on luxuries was largely approved of, albeit with a reservation that it shouldn’t be fiscal in nature. "The importance of the luxury tax in fiscal terms shouldn’t be overestimated. What is important is that this tax will be of great social and psychological significance. Obviously, the middle classes should be exempt from it. For this reason, we must work out the principles of charging this tax and the criteria for doing so in the course of an open dialogue with society and the business community." Billionaire candidate Mikhail Prokhorov has offered his own vision of what he believes the country's wealthiest minority should do to support Russia’s economy: "I propose a voluntary social welfare project under which the wealthy will contribute one percent of their personal incomes and 0.2% of their companies’ revenues to a social welfare fund. In addition, the affluent could assume responsibility for tackling any burning social issues. We could finance research laboratories which would specialize in the treatment of cancer and cardio-vascular diseases. We could pursue any projects, thus regaining public trust and winning over the society." Quite unexpectedly, A Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov turned out to be an outsider in the current presidential race. Mironov announced readiness to engage in talks with the Communists on forming an alliance between the two parties. Experts say that these kinds of statements made at the height of a presidential campaign are tantamount to political suicide. The election campaign in Russia will end on March 4th. According to recent reports, more protest rallies will be held prior to the elections. Vladimir Putin’s election headquarters are planning to stage a patriotic rally in Moscow on February 23rd, the Defender of the Fatherland national holiday. The rally will be held under the motto “Defend Your Fatherland!” As for the opposition, the organizers of the Fair Elections Movement are planning to form a 'human chain' along the Moscow Garden Ring Road on February 26th. Svetlana Andreyeva Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 11####PACE happy with elections preparations in Russia########On March 4, Russia will hold presidential elections. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is happy with its cooperation with the Russian Electoral Commission. At a press conference in Moscow, head of PACE mission in Russia Tiny Kox said that PACE had no complaints about the work of the Electoral Commission.On March 4, Russia will hold presidential elections. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is happy with its cooperation with the Russian Electoral Commission. At a press conference in Moscow, head of PACE mission in Russia Tiny Kox said that PACE had no complaints about the work of the Electoral Commission. A member of PACE mission Tadeusz Iwanski said that although there would be only 30 PACE observers in Russia during the elections, they would try to cover as much of Russia’s territory as possible. PACE observers will arrive Russia on February 29. On March 5, a joint mission of PACE, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States will produce a report assessing the presidential elections. (Sobinf) Russia, World, PACE, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 11####Elections in Russia: PACE observer mission chief talks to VoR########The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) has no complaints about the way the presidential election campaign is going on in Russia, the head of the Council’s observer mission, Tiny Kox, told journalists in Moscow.The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) has no complaints about the way the presidential election campaign is going on in Russia, the head of the Council’s observer mission, Tiny Kox, told journalists in Moscow.  PACE monitors arrived in Moscow to make preparations for the arrival of a bigger 30-member mission shortly before the March 4 elections. The delegation of monitors is led by Dutch politician of the Unified European Left Group Tiny Kox. Their task is to assess the election campaign in Russia. The results of the mission will be unveiled after the voting. Nevertheless, European observers have already commented on what they saw and heard. Mr. Kox said that most presidential candidates they had talked to noted positive changes in election campaigning in comparison to last year`s parliamentary elections. “They, however, talked about the challenges, too”, Mr. Kox said… Download audio file Mr. Kox also added that PACE observers will monitor the election together with Russian experts, as well as from colleagues from the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR). “The Central Election Commission told us that we will be working in the most comfortable environment and enjoy equal rights with our Russian colleagues”, Mr. Kox said. Download audio file Moscow expects the PACE mission to come up with unbiased conclusions about the elections in Russia,Chairman of the Committee for Foreign Affairs in the State Duma, Konstantin Kosachev, told the VoR.  “I believe that PACE is one of the most qualified organizations to monitor the elections. I hope that their report will reflect their professionalism.  How critical it will be depends on the way we hold the presidential elections.” Apart from Russian observers, some 600 international experts, including those of the CIS, the SCO, and the EurAsEc, will be monitoring the presidential elections on March 4.   Lada Korotun Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, PACE, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 11####Provocation for democracy########Interview with Yassen Zasursky who is the President of the Moscow State University’s Journalism Department and a guru of Russian journalismThe protests were provoked by the misuse of the election campaign and by the fraud which was really found out by many observers. And I think it’s a very important movement now to develop our democratic institutions so that they can make us capable of conducting really free elections with the really free discussion of the problems of the elections, of the candidates and of the results of the elections. I think that this wave of criticism was provoked by the fraud which was found out and on the other hand it is demonstrating the strength of teaming of our electorate, of our public who are concerned about the development of our democracy, of our civil society. And I think it is a sign of the growing and maturing civil society which I think is very important for the further development of our country. And I think that the coming presidential elections are also provoking a lot of discussions. And for the first time that the President, though he didn’t participate in any kind of dialog, still he participated with his articles in this campaign. So, I hope that soon he will become attracted to more closer links with the public in discussing the problems of the civil society in our country, in discussing the coming on elections and of making them really open to the public. I think that the growing participation of the public in the recent demonstrations on the streets and squares of Moscow is showing a growing sense of social and civil responsibility of the public which I think is a very sound development and that really helps Russia to strengthen and improve our democratic practices. I think in our case it’s the legitimate process of getting adapted to the democratic ways of conducting elections, of dealing voices of various sections of the society and I think that the most of the participants of the discussion are concerned about the further strengthening and developing democratic traditions of our country. And I think it is very essential for the successful conduct of the presidential elections which are still being discussed quite openly and I think provoke a lot of interest in the public. So, I don’t think there is anything so much yellow in this process, though some of the speeches of those who participated sound sometimes very yellow but that’s quite usual for these confrontations when various candidates fight for the survival of their election and reelection. I think it shows the growing scale of the democratic participation in our country and I think that the more such discussions are conducted the better it will be for the country and it will help us to select really reliable leaders and leaders who have been questioned and had to respond to various questions and make the situation clearer. I think it is sound development to my mind. Talking about questions for leaders, as far as I understand, your University department has been hosting President Medvedev recently. So what was your impression of the student’s question in the conversation with the President? They were very open and I think all the questions which are interesting for them and I think for the President. He was forced to answer some really tough questions. I call them unwiped generation, the generation that was not wiped by censorship or by tough authoritarian attacks, they are really unwiped, they are getting more and more democratically minded. I think it’s a sound development. They ask any questions they have to anybody be it the President or the Dean or any other public personality. I think it means that the young generation is interested in developing our democracy and is ready to use this democracy for the benefit of the country. Sir, thank you very much. And just to remind you our guest speaker was Yassen Zasursky - the President of the Moscow State University, Journalism Department. Yekaterina Kudashkina Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Interview, rallies For Fair Elections, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 11####Domestic logic of Russian protests########Interview with Vyacheslav Nikonov – President of Politika Foundation who is giving his expert assessment of what has been going on in Russia these days.Well, first of all I would disagree even with the term Arab Spring because what we have in Arab countries after revolutions can be called Arab Winter, I think, and in Russia there is no revolution. As for the protest inside Russia of course they have to a certain extent the same logic as the other colored revolutionary processes, they are not dissimilar but also they have their own domestic logic and there have always been the protests against the Government in Russia. Russia is by no means a unified society. I think that the distance between right and left in Russia is several miles longer than in any Western country. We have Nazis and we also have liberals, and we have libertarians and we have communists, and they are all quite active, outspoken and they have all the reasons to protest especially after 12 years of the rule of the United Russia and Mr. Putin as the President and four years as the Prime Minister. And when someone is in power for a long time there are many who are disappointed or who are not inside. So, the protests here were similar to many other events in many other countries, were stimulated by the elections which many people consider to be fraud, though of course the level of fraud was grossly exaggerated by the protestors, that’s for sure. The elections were probably the cleanest in Russia, I don’t mean to say that they were completely clean, but we are still in the very early stages of democratic transformation and of course they were much cleaner than the elections, say, of 1996 when Yeltsin was elected but there were no protests especially in the West because everybody were satisfied that it was Boris Yeltsin who got elected and not the communist candidate Gennady Zyuganov. The protests are mostly against the Government but I would also stress that there are many people rallying in the streets to support the Government. So, the protesters can be divided I think into three major groups and they actually divide themselves into three major groups. One is liberal, pro-Western which is dissatisfied that Putin is not moving Russia in the direction of standard liberal Western democracy whatever that means. The second group is the communist group which is saying that Putin is moving Russia in the Western direction and he should turn it to the communist direction with nationalization and so on and so forth. One of the leaders of this wing, Eduard Limonov, for example says if he is got elected and becomes President that will be the last election in Russian history because what they want is proletarian dictatorship. The third group is nationalists who dissatisfied that the Government is spending too much money on supporting the Northern Caucasus, that there are too many Muslims coming to Moscow city and so on and so forth and there should be a nationalist backlash against them. So, these are the three groups which are protesting. The groups supporting the regime are those who have some memory of what happened after the collapse of the Soviet Union when we lost half of the economy and they really do not want to go back to the 90es and that is the absolute majority of the population. Does this situation hurt Putin? Actually it does because it delegitimizes his rule to a certain extent but at the same time in the recent public opinion polls there is an increase of Putin’s popularity because in this situation of course seeing that he is weak and electorate starts to consolidate around him because he looks and sounds much better than the opposition leaders who are not popular at all especially some of them who are most actively attacking Putin having at the same time very negative ratings. Now, there is the factor of the election campaign, it’s already influencing debates in the Duma, the agenda of the political life, the kind of legislation which is now proposed by the Government, realism and counter-realism. That may last for a while and the big question whether it will last till the presidential election or will continue afterwards. My prediction is that it will not stop on March 4. Isn’t it strange that of all people Mr. Putin would be the figure provoking so much both attention and belligerence in the West, why? Well, of course Putin is not the most popular figure in the West unlike the rest of the globe, he is by the way quite popular in many countries including China, India, Latin American countries and so on. And of course the Wets is not that united, there is Southern Europe where there are no strong emotions against Putin. It is mostly Anglo-Saxon world of course and mostly the United States and United Kingdom. Why they are dissatisfied? Because Putin represents an independent Russia with its own views on international affairs which often do not coincide with those of the US Government or some other Western governments. Putin represents Russia which has its own national interests and does not just follow the national interests of the others. And actually there are not so many people like that and I think that’s why Putin did not support that war in Iraq, he did not support the war in Afghanistan, he did not support the war in Libya and he is definitely not supporting the possible coming war with Syria or Iran and that’s exactly what the Western countries are up to. But on the other hand Putin was the first man to offer his condolences to Mr. Bush and Putin was the Russian leader with whom the de facto dialog with the West was developing quite favourably. Absolutely and that will be the same in the future. But at the same time he cannot be divided from Russia which is always regarded as a sort competitor rather than a companion and Putin represents that Russia. And of course Putin was not the favourite candidate for the presidential election. Joe Biden, when he came to Moscow last summer, he stressed that Putin is not the choice of the US Administration and they would prefer someone else. As long as Mr. Biden is there. Of course. You know, every uprising is a result of some dissatisfaction or a result of too high expectations which were not met. And that’s exactly what is happening here, the expectations are high, then there was a crisis and of course the Government was blamed for that and that was the beginning of desacralization of the central Government, though in general the presidency of Putin was one of the most successful in the Russian history. During his first two terms as the President of Russia the average growth of the economy was 7% annually which was actually the best result in the Russian history ever. Of course the crisis then changed the whole picture but you know the economy is developing all right compared to the Western countries. Interestingly enough, they are suggesting a Western liberal model whereas almost all Western experts are now talking about global crisis of the Western liberal model. And those people who got to Bolotnaya Square or elsewhere are very well educated by the way, this is the middle class, they are not buying such things, are they? Of course they are upper middle class, I would say, and they are young people – these are students and upper middle class. It is not the people who lost their jobs, it is not the people who are suffering, not at all. Those are the people who actually became the middle class during the Putin’s presidency. But the irony of the situation is that the interest to the liberalization of the Russian state always increases when everyone else in the West are speaking of the crisis of the liberal model. That was exactly the case at the end of World War when everyone in the West was speaking about the fall of the West and the same in the 70-80es before the collapse of the Soviet Union, and now when there is much talk about the crisis of at least the near liberal or near conservative model of Western capitalism and here it comes again to Russia. And once again, why their coverage is so emotional? Well, I think it has more to do with the hopes of the forces outside that Putin can be weakened if not defeated. The delegitimization of the presidential elections may be good for those who want to see weak Putin rather than strong Putin, rather weak Russia and not strong Russia. So, that’s the logic. 0Thank you very much. And just to remind you our guest speaker was Vyacheslav Nikonov – President of Politika Foundation Yekaterina Kudashkina Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Interview, rallies For Fair Elections, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 11####Europe likes Putin########At a conference of European politicians in Venice, which was devoted to the coming presidential elections in Russia, the participants came to an agreement that the EU, despite some amount of criticism against Vladimir Putin, would welcome him as Russia’s next president. They said that Mr. Putin’s advent as president would mean more democratization for Russia.At a conference of European politicians in Venice, which was devoted to the coming presidential elections in Russia, the participants came to an agreement that the EU, despite some amount of criticism against Vladimir Putin, would welcome him as Russia’s next president. They said that Mr. Putin’s advent as president would mean more democratization for Russia. The conference was organized by the Italian political and public Alcide De Gasperi Foundation with the support of the nongovernmental Institute for International Integration Studies. The President of the De Gasperi Foundation Franco Frattini, who once used to be Italy’s foreign minister, says that Europeans are interested in Russia’s further integration into Europe and that Mr. Putin’s presidency will most likely raise the prestige of Russia in the world. Speaking about the recent anti-Putin rallies in Russia, Mr. Frattini called them “a manifestation of democracy”. (TASS) Russia, World, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 12####Tadeusz Iwiński: “I am glad that all political forces in Russia are for fair and transparent elections”########A five-member PACE delegation has carried out a pre-electoral mission to Moscow on 8-11 February 2012, to assess the electoral framework and campaign ahead of the Russian presidential election on 4 March 2012.A five-member PACE delegation has carried out a pre-electoral mission to Moscow on 8-11 February 2012, to assess the electoral framework and campaign ahead of the Russian presidential election on 4 March 2012. One of the delegation’s members the Polish professor of political sciences and a deputy of the European Parliament Tadeusz Iwinski shared his impressions of the visit with “the Voice of Russia”. "When I visited Moscow I had many conversations with Mr. Zyuganov, who is a member of the Russian delegation at PACE sessions. I also know Zhirinosky who also took part in those sessions. I met Mr. Putin many times and when it was for the first time we talked about the Chechen issue. This time I have not had an opportunity to meet him and I regret it. I also know Mr. Mironov quite well, the leader of A Just Russia party, who just like me belongs to social-democrats. Four years ago I helped him to become a observer of Socintern (Social Intentional).   During this visit I met Mr. Prokhorov for the first time. I think he is intelligent, modest and has good plans regarding economic and political reforms and challenging projects. And he is only 45. He looked a very open person to me. I asked him what the difference was between him and Khodorkovsky. He said “Khodorkovsky came into politics several years ago and had problems and now we have the new Russia.  If I had started to do politics at that time I could have had problems too”.  These words prove the new dynamics in Russian political life. I would say that now Russia is getting ripe enough for the real democracy. I see many processes speeding up even in comparison with what I saw only two months ago when I monitored your parliamentary elections. Then I visited Moscow and Yekaterinburg. Now there are many public meetings everywhere and the new spirit of Russia’s social life is in the air. New processes have begun and I wish they would continue". In your opinion, pan Professor, will the presidential election in Russia be held in one round or two rounds? "I can’t say it. I remember that in 1996 the presidential elections were held in two rounds and in the second round the rivals were Gennady Zyuganov and Boris Yeltsin. And now… I don’t know. But I would say one thing I may find paradoxical – Probably, it would be better for Russia’s image in Europe and in the world and also for one of the main candidates, the current Prime Minister Putin if the election were held in two rounds. But transparent and fair election, even if its is held in one round are much more important for us anyway. A lot will depend on the weather on the day of the elections, turnout, which is different in Moscow, St Petersburg, Yekaterinburg, in industrial centers and small settlements.  Even geographic factor matters. We know that at the parliamentary election the United Russia gathered 90% of votes in North Caucasus. Anything may happen. But the key thing is that now all the political forces in Russia are for fair and transparent elections". Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 13####PM Putin on social policy development in Russia########The new paper outlining the program of Vladimir Putin as a candidate for president of Russia is devoted to social policy.It is being published in today's issue of the newspaper "Komsomolskaya Pravda". The Prime Minister describes the problems existing in the social sphere, as well as offering solutions. In particular, he lists a set of measures to be taken to increase the country's population by 2050 to 154 million people. Among them an increase in the salaries of teachers and doctors and scholarships for students, in addition, Vladimir Putin writes about the revival of the "labor aristocracy", or highly skilled workers. The presidential candidate also proposes steps to get rid of the burden of corruption and the bureaucratic schemes involved in the construction of housing. (RIAN) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 13####Russia may turn into “empty space” – Putin########Russia needs to implement a large-scale long-term project of demographic and land development, or else it will run the risk of turning into “empty space”. The warning comes in an article by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. The article is carried by today’s issue of the Moscow-based daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, and is focused on social policy.Russia needs to implement a large-scale long-term project of demographic and land development, or else it will run the risk of turning into “empty space”. The warning comes in an article by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. The article is carried by today’s issue of the Moscow-based daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, and is focused on social policy. Russia boasts some 40% of world mineral wealth, while the Russian population accounts for just 2% of the world population, Putin writes. He points out that a top priority in settling the problem is a comprehensive support for large families and a well thought-out migration policy that should seek to attract some 300,000 people every year for permanent residence in Russia.     (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 13####Putin’s views for a better Russia########With less than a month before the presidential elections in Russia Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin wrote an article outlining his views for a better Russia. It tangled issues ranging from reforming parliament and local government to fighting corruption.With less than a month before the presidential elections in Russia Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin wrote an article outlining his views for a better Russia. It tangled issues ranging from reforming parliament and local government to fighting corruption. We’ve assembled an international panel to parse out Putin’s words and look ahead at his agenda should he ever get the presidency with Anton Fedyashin, Professor of History of American University and Specialist on Russia, William Pomeranz, Deputy Director of the Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian Studies at the Woodrow Wilson Center, and Sergey Markov, Director of the Institute for Political Studies in Moscow.   Rob Sachs, Jessica Jordan Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 13####Putin’s new campaign article focuses on social policies########Another campaign article written by Russia`s Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin was released in Komsomolskaya Pravda daily on Monday. This time the article focuses on social policies.Another campaign article written by Russia`s Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin was released in Komsomolskaya Pravda daily on Monday. This time the article focuses on social policies. The article begins with Mr. Putin saying that the budget’s expenses on social sphere now stand at over 50%. “This is true, but is not enough”, says director of the Center for Political Information Alexei Mukhin. "It is very tempting but still hard to agree that Russia has already turned into a socially-oriented economy. Yes, pensions and salaries are increased regularly, and some special programs were launched to improve the living of the most vulnerable social groups. Nevertheless, the gap between the rich and the poor in Russia remains too wide and can be compared to that in the United States. So, talking about social equality in Russia now would be a mistake."  Mr. Putin, however, is aware of this and is going to move on to turn Russia into a socially fair country. He pledges a further increase in pensions, adding that he is opposed to raising the pension age. The article says that the practice of paying $13,000 to women who give birth to more than two children will continue as it has already brought some positive changes to the country’s demographic situation. Mr. Putin also suggests paying about $230 a month to a mother of three and more children until a child is three years old. He believes that without managing to reverse a demographic decline and boosting the country’s population from the current 143 million, Russia is ‘facing the risk of turning into an empty space’.  Mr. Putin also pledges that investing in education will become a priority in the decade to come. He admits that latest reforms in healthcare and education have not proved effective, adding that low salaries result in the lack of motivation among professionals working in state-funded organizations.  Mr. Putin says that starting from September 1, 2012, the income of school and university teachers will reach the average level in a region, while by 2018 their salaries will stand at 200 percent of the national average. Salaries in state-funded hospitals will go up, too.  Mr. Putin also stressed the need to boost self-esteem of blue-collar workers, and suggested the revival of the so-called ‘working aristocracy’. He expects that by 2020 this social class could comprise about 10 million qualified professionals. Political analyst Dmitry Danilin comments. "In the early 20th century the working aristocracy was one of the pillars of our state. It guarantees stability and effective economic development." This is Putin`s fifth campaign article. The first one was published in Izvestiya on January 16th, and dealt with major challenges Russia is facing now. A new article was released in Nezavisimaya Gazeta a week later to focus on ‘the national question’. The third and fourth articles in Kommersant focused on Russia’s economic development and democracy. All his campaign articles unveil the highlights of his election program. Natalya Kovalenko Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, demography, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 14####Vladimir Putin: the fourth article########As Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is seeking to become president for a third term in Russia, he has now written five articles since January detailing his outlook on Russia social and economic issues also addressing issues of illegal immigration and politics. The latest article is generally addressed to some of his main constituents – state workers and blue-collar workers.As Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is seeking to become president for a third term in Russia, he has now written five articles since January detailing his outlook on Russia social and economic issues also addressing issues of illegal immigration and politics. The latest article is generally addressed to some of his main constituents – state workers and blue-collar workers. To discuss the fourth article we are joined on the line with Vyacheslav Nikonov, Dean of the Public Administration Department at Moscow State University.   Kim Brown Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 14####Russian early voting to kick off on Feb. 18########The early voting in Russia’s presidential election is slated to kick off on Feb. 18 in 52 countries worldwide, Yelena Dubrovina, a member of the Russian Central Elections Commission, said today.The early voting in Russia’s presidential election is slated to kick off on Feb. 18 in 52 countries worldwide, Yelena Dubrovina, a member of the Russian Central Elections Commission, said today. This day, Russian citizens living in Bulgaria’s Dobrich will be the first to cast their ballots in the poll to choose the country's new head of state.  The early election phase in Guyana, Denmark, India, Spain, Estonia, South Africa, as well as Boston and Philadelphia, US, will finish on March 3. A total of 80,000 people are expected to come to the polling stations around the world, Dubrovina said. In Russia, residents of remote areas, servicepeople in remote military units and sailors at sea will be able to vote early on February 17. RIAN Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 14####Zyuganov, Zhirinovsky: Putin 'has more airtime'########The election campaign is in full swing as Russia prepares to elect president on March 4. The candidates are left a bit more than two weeks to attract more supporters to their side. Opposition candidates have said they are going to report the president about unequal coverage of their presidential programs in mass media.The election campaign is in full swing as Russia prepares to elect president on March 4. The candidates are left a bit more than two weeks to attract more supporters to their side. Opposition candidates have said they are going to report the president about unequal coverage of their presidential programs in mass media. Long-term rivals, the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov and the Liberal-Democratic Party head Vladimir Zhirinovsky, have unexpectedly become allies. They both have expressed their protest on how air time is being divided between the candidates. “We demand that all candidates have equal rights during election campaign. Mr. Putin is given 3-5 minutes for his report, and we, too, want the same. My program is just 7 pages long, and I address you all to read it and share your impression,” Zyuganov said. “We need more airtime on TV. On Sunday they added a bit. It means that they can do it, they can be more objective and not quote us out of context,” said Zhirinovsky. Another presidential candidate of A Just Russia party, Sergei Mironov, took the side of his rivals. Mironov, however, did not attend a press-conference himself as he was away on a business trip. Mr. Putin`s press-secretary Dmitry Peskov responded to the complaints by saying that if there really were any violations, the candidates should report them to the Central Election Commission and defend their rights in court. Experts agree that the candidates will unlikely go to court. In the height of election campaign, any statements made by rivals just pursue an increase to the ratings, says Leonid Polyakov, professor at the Higher School of Economics. “The prime minister enjoys more airtime because he is the head of government, and publicity is part of his job… Mass media cannot ignore Putin as the current Prime Minister and the work which is being done by his Cabinet,” Polyakov said. Lada Korotun Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Russian presidential election 2012, Gennady Zuganov, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 15####Moscow to rehearse presidential polls########February 25 will see a dress rehearsal of the upcoming presidential election in Russia, Valentin Gorbunov, head of the Moscow Elections Commission said on Wednesday. He added that on February 25, an open day will be held at polling stations in each and every Moscow district, where visitors can be briefed on the voting procedures.February 25 will see a dress rehearsal of the upcoming presidential election in Russia, Valentin Gorbunov, head of the Moscow Elections Commission said on Wednesday. He added that on February 25, an open day will be held at polling stations in each and every Moscow district, where visitors can be briefed on the voting procedures. “We also plan to invite representatives of media outlets, political parties and members of other elections commissions,” Gorbunov said, adding that all the polling stations in Moscow will be equipped with web cameras and transparent ballot boxes. A total of 5 candidates will run for presidency in the March 4 elections. (RIA- Novosti) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 15####Electoral struggle buoys Putin instead of weakening him########What is going on in Russia as the presidential race heats up and Russian television, newspapers and especially the Internet become the venues for some of the hottest debates in two decades? And what future will this country have depending on the outcome of this election?What is going on in Russia as the presidential race heats up and Russian television, newspapers and especially the Internet become the venues for some of the hottest debates in two decades? And what future will this country have depending on the outcome of this election? The array of views on the matter in the Western media, the academic and political communities is pretty wide, but most of the opinion pieces and analyses are centered on one theme – their authors’ impressions from the media reports about the recent protests in Moscow. This element of Russia’s political landscape – which is important indeed, but not necessarily decisive – is often exaggerated and taken out of context. "Dear Vlad, the Arab Spring has arrived at a neighborhood near you," John McCain, former Republican presidential candidate, known for his “sympathy” towards Russia’s Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin, tweeted last week. To illustrate his point, Mc Cain, currently merely a congressman from Arizona, included a link to a New York Times article about the recent opposition protest. Mr. McCain might be even more impressed if he stumbled upon this purported picture of recent protests circulated via Facebook. The problem is that the picture indeed depicts a protest, but  in 1990, not in 2012. Anyone familiar with Moscow’s realities of the last 20 years can notice that some important architectural details of today’s Manezhnaya Square are missing in this picture. In the mid-1990s the square, located near the Kremlin, became the site of a huge underground shopping mall. This site is now adorned with sculptures, granite benches and other decorative objects, which deprived the organizers of mass rallies in the city center of their biggest venue in the years 1989-1991. But even if he was not indeed inspired by a fake picture, McCain clearly blundered in his choice of parallels. Russians, even the ones sympathetic to the opposition, rarely share the view that our city middle class protests have anything in common with the Middle Eastern revolutions of the “Arab Spring.” Indeed, the Arab revolutions with their propensity for violence and instability are much less popular in Russia than in the US and the EU countries.  “The situation in Russia is fundamentally different from what is going on in the countries destabilized by the Arab spring,” says Sergei Karaganov, the head of the Institute of Europe, Russian Academy of Sciences. In Moscow and St. Petersburg, where most of the protests have taken place, the majority of the participants were anything, but they certainly were not desperately poor people. The cafes and restaurants located in the proximity to the protest area were full to capacity even before the meetings ended. “Actually, a lot of these protests had their roots in media pictures. People went out not because they had nothing to eat, but because they were tired of seeing the same faces on television,” said Alexander Gurnov, a veteran anchor of Rossiya television Channel, currently working for RT television channel. “Longing for a different face on television is an understandable feeling, but it is clearly not enough to induce people to stage a real rebellion, toppling a government. So, these rallies are more like calls for reform than revolutionary actions.” The Western media, however, fails to notice this fact, still holding a strong belief that some kind of a mass rally might somehow “sweep away” Putin and his associates. The most far-sighted Western analysts consider these hopes groundless. “Putin’s decision to run for president again, announced by president Dmitry Medvedev and Putin himself at a party rally in September 2011, was very badly received in the West. However, ruining plans of cooperation with Russia simply because of Putin’s return to power would go against the West’s own interests,” said John Laughland, director of studies at the Institute of Democracy and Cooperation in Paris, France. Other experts have a somewhat less dramatic view of the situation. “I think a lot will depend on the way the presidential election will indeed be conducted, how fair it will be,” said by phone from London John Kampfner, the chief executive of Index on Censorship, a publishing organization advocating freedom of expression. “If there are too many irregularities – not necessarily ballot stuffing, but, say, unequal access to media for various candidates – so, if there are reasons not to consider this election entirely fair, there will be an increasing coolness in relations between Russia and Washington, Russia and the countries of the EU”. However, Kampfner agrees that even in the worst case scenario Western countries will not stop cooperating with Russia economically and in such areas as stopping illegal migration, arms reduction or fighting terrorism. But, in Kampfner’s opinion, “in case of flawed election cooperation with the West will be reduced to a limited number of areas.” A still more detailed analysis might reveal something that Western media prefers to deny: the recent protest actions did not damage Putin politically, they indeed made Putin’s campaign “leaner and meaner.”  People cannot remember another time when Putin would be addressing such a variety of various social groups among Russians. Putin’s articles on Russia’s identity and ethnic issues, Russia’s economy and, finally, on Russia’s democracy – these articles indeed showed a new intellectual face of Russia’s prime-minister. There is going to be more transparency with the vote-counting, as the developments at the electoral commissions will be monitored live by web-cameras. All of these improvements to Russia’s democracy would not have been possible without the December protests. So, their organizers indeed helped Putin to change, without even knowing it.  Dmitry Lezhnev Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 15####United Russia’s Fate Hinges on Protesters########As the Russian presidential campaign comes to its head, local media fix their gaze on the unfolding political panorama.In its article They Say That They Are Not Seen, the Moscow News told the story of alleged unfair electoral campaigning.  Communist chief Gennady Zyuganov and Liberal Democrat leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky filed a complaint to President Dmitry Medvedev, claiming that airtime had been distributed unevenly between the candidates, with Vladimir Putin getting the biggest slice – as large as two-thirds of all broadcast time – while the rest of the presidential contenders had to settle for what was left. Zyuganov described the practice as “unfair play,” and stressed that unfair campaigning was discrediting the elections as such. Zhirinovsky went even further, slamming the so-called 'liberal media' whose coverage was highly biased against Putin’s competitors. Fair Russia’s nominee Sergei Mironov, who had earlier been expected to contribute to the complaint, weaseled out of it to hit his Omsk campaign trail. “Presidential hopefuls failed at uniting their efforts in the fight for airtime,” the Moscow News concluded. The Kommersant newspaper featured an article titled Drop-Out Candidate which gave a breakdown of Sergei Mironov’s candidate portfolio, his political biography, electoral platform and his party’s prospects. The newspaper reminded its readers that Mironov announced his bid after an eight-year break and was now elbowing his way into the runoff. Fair Russia’s members believe that their nominee stands a fair chance of succeeding, although sociologists do not share their optimism. Still, a survey conveyed by the Kommersant among Russian political pundits proved that, whatever the election outcome, nothing could knock Fair Russia back down to the ground. On the contrary, clouds seem to be gathering on United Russia’s horizon. Nezavisimaya Gazeta argues that the protest wave could really wash Russia’s leading party away.  An article called Street To Decide On United Russia’s Fate shared the behind-the-scenes information on the future the party's leadership had in store for it.  According to the source, United Russia’s fate hinges on the number of protesters that might take to the streets after the March 4 election. Which means, the louder the public outcry, the gloomier the party’s prospects. Some United Russians are even considering hopping aboard another party’s bandwagon. And not without a reason, because the question of leadership has gained increasing importance since Putin started to try and distance himself from his party. Meanwhile, Vedomosti has published extracts from the election manifesto put forth by Putin’s regional headquarters, who have been given an ambitious task of helping their candidate avoid a runoff. Still, the electoral camps are not going to try and jump too high over the 50% rake.”The Novosibirsk department has set a goal of 52%,” its head, Nikolai Formichyov, said. Vladimir Litvinenko, head of Putin’s St. Petersburg campaign team and Chancellor of the local mining institute, believes that the Prime Minister needs a 50% majority to win in the first round. However, he doubts that this goal would be easy to achieve, since Vladimir Putin’s ratings have not exceeded 48%. In the run-up to the parliamentary elections, the Kremlin has called on regional governors and United Russia to do their best to repeat the 2007 record of 65%. But the 49% result made the government think better of it. According to Putin’s press secretary Dmitry Peskov, everyone still aims at assuring Mr Putin's victory in the first round, however no marks are being set.  Russia, Opinion & Analysis, mass media, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 16####Kashpirovskiy became Zhirinovskiy’s trustee########The Central Election Commission registered 17 new trustees of the presidential candidate Vladimir Zhirinovskiy. Among them there is a psychotherapist Anatoliy Kashpirovskiy, known for his medical telesessions. All in all, there are 277 trustees in Vladimir Zhirinovskiy’s pull. The number of trustees of each candidate should not exceed 600.The Central Election Commission registered 17 new trustees of the presidential candidate Vladimir Zhirinovskiy. Among them there is a psychotherapist Anatoliy Kashpirovskiy, known for his medical telesessions. All in all, there are 277 trustees in Vladimir Zhirinovskiy’s pull. The number of trustees of each candidate should not exceed 600. Trustees should represent their candidate and agitate constituents to vote for him. Russian presidential election is taking place on March, the 4-th. RIAN Russia, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Russian presidential election 2012, LDPR, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 16####Russia: cameras to ensure elections’ fairness########The Russian Central Electoral Commission has adopted an instruction on using web cams at polling stations during the presidential elections on March 4. In particular, it says that once the vote-counting protocol has been signed, the commission’s chairperson must show every page of its original to those present and to the camera and read out the results.The Russian Central Electoral Commission has adopted an instruction on using web cams at polling stations during the presidential elections on March 4. In particular, it says that once the vote-counting protocol has been signed, the commission’s chairperson must show every page of its original to those present and to the camera and read out the results. The decision to equip polling stations with cameras was made by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin because many Russians voiced concerns that the results of the recent parliamentary elections had been rigged. To date, cameras have been installed at 40% of all polling stations in Russia. All of Russia’s polling stations will be equipped with cameras for presidential Election Day. IF Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 17####Russia: early voting begins in presidential elections########Early voting in presidential elections begins in Russia today. Representatives of electoral commissions have set out to offer ballots to residents of Chukotka: reindeer herders, scientists, border guards, employees of gold mining companies. The opportunity to exercise the right to early voting will be open until the so-called "Day of Silence" -  March 3rd. (“Ekho Moskvy&rdquoEarly voting in presidential elections begins in Russia today. Representatives of electoral commissions have set out to offer ballots to residents of Chukotka: reindeer herders, scientists, border guards, employees of gold mining companies. The opportunity to exercise the right to early voting will be open until the so-called "Day of Silence" -  March 3rd. (“Ekho Moskvy”) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 17####Time to choose########Early voting for the March 4 presidential election has begun in Russia. Reindeer breeders, sailors, polar crews, geologists, goldEarly voting for the March 4 presidential election has begun in Russia. Reindeer breeders, sailors, polar crews, geologists, gold miners and all those who won’t be able to vote on March 4 will have an opportunity to exercise their voting right through early ballot casting from February 17 until March 3. It’s going to be a busy fortnight for the Central Electoral Commission. Early voting normally covers about 1% of the country’s electorate. Thousands of district electoral commission members will head for remote and hard-to-reach areas using whatever transport can bring them there – reindeer, snowmobiles, off-roaders or helicopters. Snow or rain, strong winds or high waves, ballot boxes will find their way by all means to an isolated yurt in the taiga and to a ship in the open sea.   Sergei Mikheyev, Vice President of the Center for Political Research, explains that early voting is a legitimate and democratic procedure aimed at making voting available to all voters. "The law allows early voting to enable those who will be unable to vote on the official voting day to do so during two weeks preceding the election. This is not a specifically Russian norm but common practice worldwide." Siyabshakh Shapiyev, a member of the Central Electoral Commission, notes that early voting in Russia covers remote areas in the Far East, the Arctic, Siberia and the Urals. "Lists of remote and hard-to-reach areas are compiled by regional authorities in line with regional laws. At present, of the 83 territorial entities of the Russian Federation, only 37 have been qualified as hard to reach." Russians overseas will also get a chance to vote. The Central Electoral Commission has allowed early ballot casting in 58 countries, above all Muslim countries where Sunday is a working day. An estimated 80,000 Russians abroad are expected to take part in the vote. All in all, 96,000 polling stations will be open in Russia plus 347 polling centers in 147 countries. Natalya Kovalenko Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 18####Early voting in Russian presidential election kicks off abroad########Early voting in the forthcoming Russian presidential election is getting under way at polling stations abroad. According to the Central Elections Commission, such stations have been set up in almost 60 countries for 80,000 Russian nationals, mostly in Bulgaria, Latvia and Germany. Early voters are those who make their home in remote or hard-of-access places.Early voting in the forthcoming Russian presidential election is getting under way at polling stations abroad. According to the Central Elections Commission, such stations have been set up in almost 60 countries for 80,000 Russian nationals, mostly in Bulgaria, Latvia and Germany. Early voters are those who make their home in remote or hard-of-access places. The seamen of the Russian Pacific Fleet in the Gulf of Aden, as well as Russian peacekeepers in South Sudan will also be able to cast their ballots.  The presidential election in Russia is due on March 4th . Contesting the office will be Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov, the Head of A Just Russia, Sergei Mironov, the Liberal Democratic Party leader, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, and the independent candidate, Mikhail Prokhorov.  Mayak, RBC Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 18####Russia elections: Internet vs TV?########Russia’s opposition groups have shifted the focus of their activities to the Internet this week in preparation for a number of upcoming protest actions, which are expected to include a motor rally across Moscow and the so-called 'White Ring' event on February 26th.Russia’s opposition groups have shifted the focus of their activities to the Internet this week in preparation for a number of upcoming protest actions, which are expected to include a motor rally across Moscow and the so-called 'White Ring' event on February 26th. The government, on its part, is gearing up for a rally which is due to take place on February 23rd. Meanwhile, early voting is already under way in Russia's remote areas and for the Russians who are based abroad.  The organizers of the White Ring event are planning to form a human chain along the entire length of the Garden Ring Road in downtown Moscow with a view to encircle the Kremlin. Those willing to join are required to indicate their intended location on the map. 34,000 people will be required to form the human chain. But only 2,000 participants had registered on the website by Friday and some 12,000 have signed up for the event on Facebook. Moscow City Hall officials say that participants of a human chain don’t have to seek special permission unless the event obstructs traffic. As for government supporters, they have failed to obtain permission for holding a rally in the vicinity of the Kremlin and will have to march along the Frunzenskaya Embankment to the Luzhniki Stadium. As early voting got under way across Russia this week, residents of the Sakhalin Region cast their ballots on Friday. More than a million people in 37 remote areas of Russia will be able to cast their votes before the so-called “day of silence” on the eve of the election day. Early voting at polling stations abroad began on Saturday. In most cases, ballot boxes will be put up at Russian embassies. Bulgaria, Latvia and Germany have the largest number of early voting stations. Russians living in Bulgaria will be the first to vote. They will be followed by another 80,000 Russians residing in 58 countries. In the meantime, Russia's presidential candidates are taking part in television debates and meeting with voters. In addition, they have to make time for discussing pressing issues with the president. On Wednesday, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Gennady Zyuganov and Sergei Mironov met President Medvedev to discuss a reform of Russia's political system. Mikhail Prokhorov met with students and gave instruction to a basketball team during a training session at one of Moscow's schools. Prokhorov’s election agents, pop diva Alla Pugacheva and musician Andrei Makarevich, wrote a song in support of their candidate. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has been busy inspecting the implementation of healthcare reforms in the Siberian Federal District and debating with officials over ways to boost the efficiency of state management. Pollsters are having a busy time tracking fluctuations in the candidates’ ratings. The ratings of independent Mikhail Prokhorov and A Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov have been going up, while the ratings of Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky have remained unchanged. Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov’s ratings have been going down. By contrast, Vladimir Putin’s ratings have shown a steady rise, nearing 55% against 53% last week. Strange as it might seem, each opposition move receives a hearty welcome on the Internet and each of Putin’s steps runs into an avalanche of criticism. Pavel Salin of the Political Situation Center believes there's nothing surprising about that. "There is nothing surprising about all this. Russian voters fall into two groups: the larger one belongs to the TV audience, the smaller one relies on the Internet. Given the situation, a hike in Putin’s ratings was predictable." The Internet minority is fully aware who has more chances of winning the vote and is just trying to give vent to their pent-up fury, analyst Leonid Polyakov says. "The overall majority of Russians realise that the Prime Minister is the only person who can guarantee stability and development. They realise that a victory by any of presidential contenders other than Putin would lead to changes, not necessarily for the better. Everyone remembers the changes the country went through in the 90s. Even opposition supporters who keep in touch via the Internet, are aware that Putin is likely to win in the first round. That's why they are giving way to their adverse feelings." Obviously, the confrontation in the Russian society is coming to an end and the government has been working hard to search for a solution. On February 20th, President Medvedev will meet representatives from unregistered political groups to discuss suggestions on the minimum number of members required for a party to register and ways of reforming Russia's political system. Igor Siletsky Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Elections 2012. Commentary, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 19####Putin hopes to sign public agreement with other presidential candidates########In the election campaign team Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin hopes to sign a public agreement with other presidential candidates, Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Sunday. He said that the idea on such an agreement had proceeded from one of the discussions on the elections’ transparency.In the election campaign team Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin hopes to sign a public agreement with other presidential candidates, Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Sunday. He said that the idea on such an agreement had proceeded from one of the discussions on the elections’ transparency. The main idea of the document is to confirm the candidates’ commitment to holding fair elections. According to Peskov, Putin has repeatedly advocated for fair election and more than anyone else is interested in its fairness. Last December, the opposition questioned the legitimacy of the parliamentary elections in Russia claiming that there had been numerous violations during the vote. The presidential elections in Russia are slated for March 4. Five candidates are to run for presidency. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 20####Fair elections campaign organizers plan rally for March 5########The fair elections campaign organizers plan a rally for March 5, the day after the presidential election, organizing committee member, Left Front coordinator Sergei Udaltsov told on Sunday. He said the rally would start on Lubyanskaya Square at 7:00 p.m. Moscow time.The fair elections campaign organizers plan a rally for March 5, the day after the presidential election, organizing committee member, Left Front coordinator Sergei Udaltsov told on Sunday. He said the rally would start on Lubyanskaya Square at 7:00 p.m. Moscow time. The notification will be filed with the Moscow city administration on February 20 by Sergei Parkhomenko, Dmitry Bykov, Anastasia Udaltsova, Nadezhda Mityushkina, Sergei Davidis, Igor Bakirov and Yelena Lukyanova. Also, the organizing committee plans a rally in central Moscow in the period from March 8 to 10. The precise date will be chosen in an online vote. (ITAR TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 20####Russia’s national security is top priority – Putin########Today the Rossiyskaya Gazeta daily carries the sixth pre-election article by Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who claims that Russia’s national security can be guaranteed only if the country is really strong.The Russian leader warns that Russia will under no circumstances give up the efforts to consolidate its strategic deterrence potential. Putin points out that Russia has adopted and is carrying out unprecedented programmes to build up its Armed Forces and update the Military-Industrial Complex. A total of some 23 trillion roubles will be allocated for the purpose in the coming decade. He said other priorities were the revival of Russia’s ocean patrol navy. On the deployment of the US global missile defence system, Putin said that Russia’s military-technical response will prove effective and asymmetrical. (TASS)   Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 20####Youth organizations to hold demonstrations in Moscow########Youth organizations, acting in support of the current Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin,  intend to hold demonstrations  in the central areas of Moscow for the period of presidential elections, Mikhail Dukhovich, the spokesperson  for «United Actions Union»  said.Youth organizations, acting in support of the current Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin,  intend to hold demonstrations  in the central areas of Moscow for the period of presidential elections, Mikhail Dukhovich, the spokesperson  for «United Actions Union»  said. The union (which includes such movements as «Young Russia», «Locals», «New People»,  «Young Guard» and the «United Russia» youth organization «Nashi») is going to hold their demonstrations on Manezhnaya, Lubyanka, Theatre, Bolotnaya and Revolution Squares. The opposition is also planning to hold demonstrations on March 4-5.  They applied to hold it on Lubyanka Square, Sergey Udaltsov, the representative of «Left Front» political organization said. RIA Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 20####National security and future of army########Another article by Russia’s Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin was published in the Rossiyskaya GazetaAnother article by Russia’s Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin was published in the Rossiyskaya Gazeta newspaper on Monday, a publication that comes two weeks before the presidential elections in Russia which are scheduled for March 4. The sixth keynote article, named To Be Stronger: Guarantees of National Security for Russia,’ focuses on the national security-related issues and the future of the Russian Armed Forces. “The world is changing, and under global economic and other upheavals, one can yield to temptation to resolve one’s problems at the expense of others and with the help of the use of force,” Putin says. “This means that we must not lead anyone on into temptation with our weakness,” he warns. The article is, in fact, a response to those who have repeatedly slammed the country’s large-scale program of modernization of the army and military and industrial complex which is expected to cost about 23 trillion rubles. These plans provoked a public uproar and came amid the resignation of Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin. Vladimir Putin, for his part, expressed confidence that these tasks “comply with possibilities and resources of the country” . According to him, the militarization of the Russian budget is out of the question.  Over the past twelve years, the Russian authorities have managed to resolve the crisis in the army and start the process of reforms there, Putin recalls. On December 1, 2011, the Aerospace Defense Forces were put on service in Russia, where a spate of early warning radar systems were installed in the Leningrad and Kaliningrad regions, as well as in the city of Armavir in subsequent months. Additionally, an early warning radar system is currently operating in a test regime in the city of Irkutsk.  The article also cites the full deployment of the GLONASS satellite system in Russia. Alexei Mukhin, of the Center of Political Information in Moscow, says that in his article, Putin addresses both the Russian and Western public. "This keynote article is the most important, Mukhin says. Vladimir Putin makes it plain that he contributed to restoring the country’s defense potential. As for the Western community, it is closely watching Russia’s military reform which the West admitted has been getting under way. Russia managed to move out of the protracted crisis which started in the 1990s, Mukhin says, quoting Putin as touting the results of the military reform and military hardware that have entered service in Russia. The article was not aimed at intimidating the Western community. The goal was to demonstrate that Russia’s foreign policy initiatives are supported by a force to be reckoned with and that it is necessary to develop relations with Russia." Separately, Putin focused on Moscow’s reaction to the US’ and NATO’s plans to deploy the missile defense system. Russia’s military and technical response will be “effective and asymmetric, Putin said, adding that an optimal variant could be an “ability to pierce through any missile defense system and protect Russia’s retaliatory potential.” At the same time, Vladimir Putin urged an array of amendments to the country’s national security strategy which he said is only natural given hi-tech realities of the modern-day world. The countries’ military capabilities in terms of their competition in space and cyberspace are of paramount importance, Putin pointed out. He also said that he does not rule out the creation of laser, geo-physics, wave and gene weapons in the future. In light of this, the state will effectively use the scientific potential of the defense and civil industry, Putin concluded. Mikhail Romanov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian Army, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 20####Election races in Russia########As Russia’s election campaign gathers strength, political groups in cities throughout the country have been stepping up their activities in support of presidential candidates. Motor rallies in support of the candidates have been held in Moscow and other cities of Russia.As Russia’s election campaign gathers strength, political groups in cities throughout the country have been stepping up their activities in support of presidential candidates. Motor rallies in support of the candidates have been held in Moscow and other cities of Russia. On Monday morning, opposition and government supporters narrowly avoided a scuffle as they sought permission for holding a multi-thousand rally on Lubyanka Square in downtown Moscow. Our correspondents Maria Vesnovskaya and Polina Chernitsa report. Representatives of the opposition and government supporters kept vigil at the Moscow City Hall building throughout the night to be the first to file a request for holding a rally in Lubyanka. Bickering between the two rival groups came to a head on Monday morning narrowly growing into a brawl, Duma deputy and Young Russia leader Maxim Mishchenko told a Voice of Russia correspondent. Mishchenko succeeded in being the first to apply, having filed all required documents by quarter after nine. Other hopefuls turned out to be unprepared, he said. "Government supporters were squabbling with opposition representatives throughout the night. Entrance to the City Hall building was blocked at 7 am, so I decided to enter via another entrance. Ponomaryov went in along with me but he had no application form on him. He kept calling Udaltsov about the papers. He then tried to bar my passage but I managed to pass our request through a reception window and got it back with a stamp on it." The pro-Kremlin Young Russia Movement expects to gather up to one thousand people in Lubyanka Square on March 4th and 5th . Meanwhile, opposition representatives claim that the Young Russia bid was submitted with flagrant violations. The City Hall is launching an inquiry, Left Front leader Sergei Udaltsov says. "Pro-Kremlin activities breached the regulations. They jumped the queue. Now, City Hall employees are conducting an inquiry. We submitted our bid too later but it was not our fault – we just couldn’t get into the building for about an hour. We filed a request for 7pm on March 5th . We picked Lubyanka because it’s near the Central Election Commission premises. We’ll continue talks to seek the authorities’ permission to gather in Lubyanka." Opposition and government supporters took part in a whole range of activities over the weekend. On February 18th government supporters held motor rallies in support of Vladimir Putin, and on February 19th opposition motorists zoomed against him. Both picked the Moscow Garden Ring for their campaigns. The 16-kilometer ring road in the very heart of Moscow had never seen an event of such a large scale. A caravan of cars with Russian tricolors and portraits of Vladimir Putin made a full round of the Garden Ring Road. The next day, opposition representatives turned up. They had no particular gathering place and were less organized which immediately told on the traffic. The design of opposition cars demonstrated a merger of styles. Painted in every imaginable style, the cars trundled along the Garden Ring Road. Ilay Ponomaryov, who participated in the rally, described it as a creative way of campaigning. "People should feel involved in a common cause. Russia has had few if any collective campaigns over the past 20 years. We have grown individualistic. So we are now making up for it. People should feel part of one team." Some one thousand cars turned up for the so-called White Streets action. Activists of the League of Voters and representatives of the Solidarity Movement were wearing white bands and scarves. The leader of the Solidarity Movement, Boris Nemtsov, said in a Voice of Russia interview that his movement would continue to take part in each of the opposition rallies. Both government and opposition supporters have been increasingly active in the run-up to the elections, and more rallies, even though not on such a large scale, are scheduled for the end of February. Polina Chernitsa, Maria Vesnovskaya Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 20####PM Putin to win Russian presidential election – VTSIOM########According to a forecast by the VTSIOM All-Russian Centre for the Study of Public Opinion, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, running on the United Russia ruling party ticket, will win the forthcoming presidential election of March 4th by polling an estimated 58.6% of the votes.According to a forecast by the VTSIOM All-Russian Centre for the Study of Public Opinion, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, running on the United Russia ruling party ticket, will win the forthcoming presidential election of March 4th by polling an estimated 58.6% of the votes. This came in a statement by VTSIOM Director-General, Valery Fyodorov, during a press conference in Moscow earlier today. The Communist Party leader, Gennady Zyuganov, is due to come in second with 14.8% of the votes, while the Liberal Democratic Party leader, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, is expected to prove the third-best, with 9.4% of the votes to his credit. The independent candidate, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov has outstripped Socialist Sergei Mironov by one point, according to VTSIOM, and is due to poll 8.7% of the votes. Fyodorov said that the opposition rallies in Moscow and other Russian cities in recent months have had no adverse effect on Putin’s popularity rating.  (RIAN) Russia, Vladimir Putin, VTsIOM, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 20####Russia: multi-party accord still debated########The Russian Minister for Emergency Situations Sergey Soygu, who is an authorized representative of the United Russia Party in the presidential elections, which will be held on March 4, has called on all the candidates for presidency to sign a multi-party accord.The Russian Minister for Emergency Situations Sergey Soygu, who is an authorized representative of the United Russia Party in the presidential elections, which will be held on March 4, has called on all the candidates for presidency to sign a multi-party accord. At a meeting held in the Ministry for Emergency Situations on Monday, two drafts of this accord were discussed. One was written by political scientist Sergey Kurginyan, the other – by the League of Voters, a recently formed public organization. However, the discussion resulted in heated debates, and, finally, the participants agreed to further work on the text of the accord. The head of the campaign headquarters Stanislav Govorukhin says that Vladinir Putin, the candidate of the United Russia party, will sign this accord only if its text suits all the candidates. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 20####How much Russian foreign policy is personalized?########The Voice of Russia presents “A Talk with Konstantin Kosachev”, a new weekly talk show hosted by Deputy Chairman of the State Duma International Committee Konstantin Kosachev.Hello my friends! As always today on the Voice of Russia is Konstantin Kosachyov – the member of the Russian Parliament with a weekly program on the most interesting events in the world and the reaction on these events in Russia. Today my special invited guest to this program is Mr. Ivan Safranchuk – one of the Russia’s most interesting experts on foreign policy issues, mostly on the issues related to the hard power problems like international conflicts, proliferation, strategic arms control and so on and so forth. And for now Mr. Safranchuk takes the position of Deputy Director of the Institute on Contemporary International Problems of the Diplomatic Academy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia. And in that position, as far as I understand, he represents both his personal opinions about things which are going on and partially certain official approaches to these events. Am I right? Thank you for this kind presentation. I think that there is a very good spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we do not need to duplicate his job, that’s why I’m free to represent my own expert’s view rather than the official MFA position. Good! Then I would like to propose you to have certain discussions which would be both about developments in the foreign policy and developments in the Russian domestic politics. I mean that the ongoing presidential campaign in Russia definitely affects the approaches of Russia towards certain international happenings. And there is an obvious discussion in Russia and abroad on whether the current Russian approaches to the most discussed issues in the world, like the anti-missile defense program of the United States of America, like the ongoing crisis in Syria, like the current developments in Iran, whether they are personified i.e. they are dependant on the personal approach of the current President of the Russian Federation – Mr. Medvedev, and may be somehow revised and changed in case Mr. Putin wins these election or somebody else, or these approaches will stay for the future whoever becomes the new President of Russia. What do you think about that? How much Russian foreign policy is personified? I think in the West there is a very strong tendency to personify Russian foreign policy. Maybe that is because in the Soviet history there are names of the very prominent Russian diplomats and statesmen like Mr. Gromyko and everyone was thinking that it was Gromyko’s course what was going on. And before that was Mr. Stalin and Mr. Molotov and of course before that Mr. Lenin and Mr. Trotsky. But in fact I think that of course there is an impact of personalities on the history and on foreign policy as well. However in the last decade or maybe a little bit more than a decade I think that Russian foreign policy is quite consistent and it does not depend very much on personalities. I see how many experts were trying to differentiate between the foreign policy of Putin and the foreign policy of Medvedev. Especially when there was the Libyan crisis and some people would like to find some certain controversies in the Medvedev’s approach and the Putin’s approach.  Yes, they were digging into every phrase Putin or Medvedev were saying, they were looking for every possible nuance in their language. However it doesn’t look like there was a real difference in the approaches of the two leaders. They could have been saying the same things with different words, there could have been stylistic differences, however the real difference was absent. Before that there was an example of a voting on the Mozambique situation when the experts were also looking for the differences between Putin and Medvedev. But I do not see many differences. There are certain constants in the foreign policy and it doesn’t mean that everybody thinks the same, but there is a certain course of consistency. And I think that it is going on now and it will continue in the future, at least on the issues like Syria or Iran, or missile defense, or NATO expansion. It looks like there is a consensus in the Russian experts’ community and in the Russian policy makers’ community. And paradoxically on some issues candidates who stand from the liberal camp turn out to be much more conservative. For example, I think yesterday or the day before yesterday, Mr. Prohorov said that he is going to establish visa regime with the Central Asian republics of the former Soviet Union which is… Very much conservative, to put it mildly. Very much conservative, exactly. And in this regard, if he is paying so much attention to the Central Asia and to the risks coming from it, I think that then logically he would also take a much stronger position on possible American or NATO military bases in Central Asia. Well, of course officially Russia is now against that but there is a certain compromise on the Manas Base in Kyrgizstan. So, that’s why I think that very often Western observers dramatically simplify what is going on in the Russian foreign policy. They look for differences where there aren’t any. We will come back to the different aspects of the current situation in Iran and Syria later. But before we leave the political grounds, could you tell me what happens, in your opinion, in case we will have a different winner in this presidential campaign? Hypothetically let’s say it would be Mr. Zyuganov. Do you believe that there maybe any sufficient changes in the Russian foreign policy in that case? Yes, I think that if for example Zyuganov wins, judging from his internal agenda, from the philosophy and ideology which stands behind his party, I think that he can take a real course to reestablish the Soviet Union. How come, by force? I think that first they will not think how to do it, they will first declare this goal and then spoil the instruments of the Russian foreign policy not being able to achieve this goal and spoil the relations with the republics of the former Soviet Union because nobody will actually help them to achieve this unachievable goal. So, I think that right now for them there is no question of how. But if they come to power I think it would be a catastrophic and unrealistic attempt to reestablish the Soviet Union as it existed before. And you have this opinion not because you belong to a certain political force or party but as an expert on foreign policy. Yes, as an observer. So, your opinion is that the foreign policy of Mr. Zyuganov will bring more confrontation to the international relations. I don’t think that they really think about this in the terms of confrontation. The Communist Party, if we go to the origins of their philosophy, states that there was a golden age which is the Soviet Union, and then bad people came and destroyed this golden age of the Russian Soviet history and the only mission they see is to return people into this perceived golden age which existed for 30, 40 or maybe 50 years - this depends to which part of the Communist Party you speak. Some think that the golden age was under Brezhnev, other communists look deeper into the Stalin times and so on. But they want to return us to some perceived golden age while in fact Russia needs to go forward to the future. And the communists do not take into account how dramatically the world has changed and how dramatically the situation is changing right now. That’s why their attempt to go to the past, to the perceived golden age would be catastrophic for Russia and very unpleasant for the world. Ok, this goes for Mr. Zyuganov. I do not intend to discuss the foreign policy approaches of Mr. Zhirinovsky because I do not see any basic changes in their approach that should have appeared due to the certain political interests of Mr. Zhirinovsky inside of Russia. And I’m not going to discuss Mr. Mironov’s foreign policy proposals for the simple reason that I do not know much about them, they are close to the current official foreign policy of Russia. But coming back to Mr. Prohorov, I believe that his proposals and his vision of foreign policy are completely opposite to Mr. Zyuganov’s. The approaches, they may be liberal, they may be conservative but his idea is that Russia needs communication, partnership, friendship with outer world and this is how Mr. Prohorov would prefer to see Russia inside the Eurozone, inside of Schengen Agreement and things like that. Do you believe that this vision of Russia’s place in the world as being an internal part of the existing Western integration alliance is something to be seriously considered for Russia? I think that it was very seriously considered and you perfectly know that in the 90’es and in the early 2000’s Russia was very open to integration into the Western structures. What happened in reality was that Russian participation in the Western structures was too much conditioned and demands for Russia to join Western integration process were unacceptable from the point of viewof Russian interests. So, Russia was knocking on the doors of the Western community but these doors were staying closed, maybe a little bit open just to pass new demands what we need to do to make these doors open. And I remember very well the real confrontation which appeared in the Russian – Western relations in the late Yeltsin era when Yeltsin was increasingly disappointed with the United States, with Germany, with France, with leaders of these countries who were his personal friends but who as authorities were creating for him and his country a lot of problems. And I very well remember how freshly Mr. Putin was trying to put Russia back onto this course to establish good relations with the West. And of course the peak of that attempt was 2002 when Rome Declaration was signed with NATO, when NATO – Russia Council was established and when later Russia was very seriously negotiating with the European Union for deeper integration into the European structures. However, all that again, not failed, but the process was so slow that these did not meet Russian demands for the rapid economic growth. And that’s why to say that this is something new that Mr. Prohorov is saying to everybody – you are wrong, we need to turn to the West – the response is how many times we already tried. You may try again, you will lose three, four or five years more and you still would not make that door open. And look also at this Europe. In the past we wanted to join the so called golden billion. Is this billion still golden? On which terms we need to join it? And I think that he is smart enough to understand that what he is speaking publically and what is very well perceived by his voters cannot become a real official course.  I’m convinced myself that Russia should have very good relations with the West. In no terms we should be enemies with the West and with the United States or with NATO, however I think that to underpin Russian economic growth Russia should be more active in the space of the former Soviet Union and in Asia. This is the fuel for our future economic growth while the relations with the West are the prerequisite for a political stability, but for economic growth we need to turn to Asia. Ok. Now we have described the foreign policy of Mr. Zyuganov as something confrontational, to simplify the things, and the foreign policy of Mr. Prohorov as something populistic. And idealistic. Yes. I believe that both assessments are sometimes being used in describing the current official foreign policy approaches of Mr. Medvedev and his successor Mr. Putin. On the one hand they try to act in a confrontational way towards the West and the best example of that are the discussions on strategic stability and anti-missile defense. But they take this position simultaneously for the simple reason – they are too much populistic, as people believe, and they want to be liked by the ordinary people who want to see Russia as a strong power opposing the attempts of other great powers to offend Russia and get the access to the Russian territory, national resources and all that stuff. The anti-missile defense was in the center of the well known initiative of Mr. Medvedev in November last year. Last week the anti-missile defense was mentioned by the Head of the Russia Security Council Mr. Patrushev as one of two major threats towards Russian national security, the other one was international terrorism, the Middle East situation and developments there. In the latest article, written by Mr. Putin in Rossiyskaya Gazeta devoted to the industrial military complex, there are certain sayings on anti-missile defense as well and of a symmetric reaction of Russia in case these American plans become a reality. Do you agree that anti-missile defense is one of major threats towards Russian national security? I think that there is a lot of misperception on this issue. If you come from the declared position, then it is not a threat. Declared by the… By the United States, that the system as it is going to be established will be targeted against Iran, mostly, but possibly against accidental launches from other countries. But the major target is Iran. Then, yes, it is not a threat to Russia. However, we should take into account Russia experience. The Russian experience is that intentions may change - what does matter is the capability. And there are several examples when the words are not kept, when the promises are withdrawn, too many examples. And that’s why Russia I think initially in a very friendly way said – let us underpin the intentions, which we believe, with some agreement on the capability, this will be good for you and for us because if there is an agreement on capability we are more relaxed and at the same time you will also not have any incentive to change your intention. However there is no agreement on the capability and our Western partners are a little bit tricking with the argumentation because instead of giving guaranties on capability, they are starting speaking about transparency. They speak about allowing visits of observers to the bases in Poland or to the radar site in Czech Republic, or to Bulgaria where an infrastructure is going to be established, or Romania. So, they say – ok, we will admit your people to see what is going on. But transparency and even accountability does not change anything because if there is an emergence of unacceptable capability – it doesn’t matter whether it is transparent or not. As far as I understand, Russia is not afraid that it will be cheated, Russia is afraid or rather concerned that capability will grow and after the capability is mature enough naturally intentions will change because even the tax payers may say – ok, if we have so expensive system why not to use it more widely than just against Iran. It would be quite a logical argument from the point of view of tax payers who are going through the difficult economic times. And that’s why the real question is not about transparency, is not about to see that something is going on, but the real thing is about having some guaranties on capabilities. And the Western partners do not accept this at all, they do not want to limit capabilities, they want to have open options. And then the question is – how can we be sure that in 5-10 years intentions do not change. Can we base our long term interests just on somebody’s intentions which are subject to change, we know that. And just to demonstrate how this is even hypocritical on the American side I can tell you the story told by former senior officials of the Czech General Staff. Actually in 2007 – 2008 the Czech President was committed to find the compromise between the United States and Russia. He did want a radar on his territory but he didn’t want this radar to be a part of something anti-Russian. And that’s why he gave a guideline to his military – find something that would allow this radar to be build but would meet Russian concerns. And the Czech General Staff came with the proposal to the American side, and the proposal was very simple – when we make the contract on the radar site, let us put into this contract the name of the mission, we just put in the contract that the radar on our territory is used to monitor Iran, which means that if mission is going to change the contract with the Czech Republic is to be renegotiated. It will not be valid any longer. Yes, and the American negotiators said strongly – no, just don’t think about it, don’t mention it, forget about it, no mentioning about the mission in the contract with an ally. Did you get the story from WikiLeaks or is it somehow confirmed, is it public? Because it is a very interesting story. No, it is not from the mass media, it is from direct communication with the senior officials of the Czechs General Staff. They are already retired but they were in the posts that time that’s why I do not even mention them. Then we are to make it public right now because we are on the Voice of Russia and now this is on the air. Actually I was travelling to Brussels with the group of Russian experts last November and we had meetings with senior officials of NATO right in their Headquarters and we had very strong discussions on missile defense issues. And we can argue whatever but when it comes to this story – ok, you don’t want to give guaranties on capabilities to us, why can’t you fix the mission with your ally in the contract? There is no answer to that. And of course there may be different bla-bla-bla on this issue but the real answer is absent which is another argument for Russia that we should be careful if it is just about intentions and what matters is capability. Ok, we have just one minute left and hopefully there will be no need to use this anti-missile system either in relations between Russia and the United States or in any other capacity. My last questions to you would be, and the answer to them is either “yes” or “no”, will there be a war with Syria? And my second question - is there any possibility of a war in Iran? “Yes” to the first question meaning civil war in Syria fueled by some outsiders, but not a direct participation of any other country. And unfortunately “yes” to the second question. I think that through this year military strikes against Iran are possible. I don’t say that it is determined but all those who do not want military conflict in the Middle East will have to invest a lot of effort for this not to happen. That was a rather pessimistic prognosis and let’s hope that in any case Russia will be able to avoid any direct involvement in this or that military conflicts in the world. Today our special guest of the program was Mr. Ivan Safronchuk - the Deputy Director of the Institute on Contemporary International Problems of the Diplomatic Academy the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much for joining us. Konstantin Kosachev Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian Foreign Ministry, foreign policy, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 20####Further pro-democracy change on the horizon – Dmitry Medvedev########On February 28th, the Lower House of the Russian Parliament is to take up Kremlin bills to pick regional Governors by popular vote, empower political parties to name candidates for Governor, simplify the registration of parties and reduce the minimum amounts of signatures required for entering electoral contests.On February 28th, the Lower House of the Russian Parliament is to take up Kremlin bills to pick regional Governors by popular vote, empower political parties to name candidates for Governor, simplify the registration of parties and reduce the minimum amounts of signatures required for entering electoral contests. A further bill Kremlin would reserve half of the Duma seats for deputies from single-mandate constituencies. A few days after explaining this package to the leaders of all the registered parties, President Dmitry Medvedev presented it to the leaders of a number of unregistered parties and groups at a meeting with them in a presidential retreat outside Moscow on Monday. He said he felt it was time he proceeded from repairing small parts of Russia’s political system to modernizing this system as a whole: "Our political system is not perfect and remains vulnerable to serious criticism from your side. I believe it is time that we started to apply our shared approaches and views to the task of reforming it in a number of aspects. I am looking forward to your support, because your unregistered parties are even more interested in political liberalization that the registered ones". The President’s audience included Boris Nemtsov of the Popular Freedom Party, Vladimir Ryzhkov of the Republican Party and Sergey Udaltsov of the Left Front. All three are leading organizers of the group calling itself ‘The Movement for Fair Elections’. Udaltsov had this to say: "A dialogue, even a belated one, is much better than no dialogue at all. Unfortunately, today’s dialogue has brought no breakthroughs. The President rejected my initiative to cancel the next presidential elections and extend his term by two years, so that he could have enough time to implement constitutional and electoral reforms. He argued he has no powers for this, and extending his term would amount to usurpation. Nor did he yield to the requests from the rallies in Bolotnaya Square and Sakharov Avenue to consider an amnesty to a number of political prisoners, whose names had been submitted to him in a special list. At the same time, today’s discussion of the proposed pro-democracy legislation has proved very useful. Importantly, the Kremlin is also setting up a commission for looking into the proposals that were voiced at this meeting". We also have an account from Konstantin Babkin, who heads what he calls ‘The Action Party’: "The discussion lasted three hours and dealt with a number of issues including elections, the registration of parties and presidential pardon to convicted offenders. Some of our initiatives were accepted by the President. He said he was hoping that his pro-democracy legislation could be enacted before the end of his term. Importantly, he backed a number of initiatives to improve the independent monitoring of Russia’s elections. At the same time, he declined calls to dissolve the Duma and turned down requests to allow political parties to form electoral blocs". Monday’s meeting came as part of Russia’s preparations for its next presidential elections on March 4th. The politicians at it said they would take steps to have their parties registered as soon as the promised legislation was in place. Ilya Kharlamov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, political parties, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 20####Russia: who will win the elections?########The All-Russian Center of Public Opinion Studies has published the results of a poll which it recently held. The question asked to the respondents was: “Whom will you vote for at the presidential elections?The All-Russian Center of Public Opinion Studies has published the results of a poll which it recently held. The question asked to the respondents was: “Whom will you vote for at the presidential elections?” The elections are scheduled for March 4. The poll showed that the candidate with the best chances to win is Vladimir Putin, the country’s current prime minister and the candidate from the ruling United Russia Party. According to the poll’s results, he is likely to win about 60% of the votes. The candidate who has the next best chances is Gennady Zyuganov, the leader of the Communist Party. The results of similar polls held by other Russian organizations say practically the same, only the percentage may slightly differ. Thus, a poll held by the “Public Opinion” foundation showed that Mr. Putin is likely to win 50% of votes. The head of the All-Russian Center of Public Opinion Studies Valery Fyodorov tries to explain what is behind the Russians’ choice: “Our poll was held on February 11 and 12. We polled 1,600 people in 138 cities, towns and villages in 46 regions of Russia. The statistics’ fallibility was 3.4%.” “In Moscow and St. Petersburg, polls were held in early February. In each of these two cities, we asked 1,200 respondents.” “According to the results which we got, Vladimir Putin is likely to win the elections with 58.6% of the votes. Gennady Zyuganov will most likely be on the second place with 14.8% of the votes. The head of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky is likely to win 9,4%, the independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov – 8.7%, and the leader of A Just Russia Party Sergey Mironov – 7.7%.” “However,” Mr. Fyodorov continues, “Vladimir Putin’s rating is constantly growing. The same is true about Mikhail Prokhorov. In early February, 4% of potential voters supported him. Now, Mr. Prokhorov has 6%. In Moscow and St. Petersburg, his results may be even better than that of Mr. Zyuganov – 17.2% and 16% respectively.” Denis Volkov, an expert from the Levada Center, names practically the same figures: “The data of the All-Russian Center of Public Opinion Studies seem to reflect the real state of affairs,” he says. “Our center has held a similar poll of its own. Its results will be published later this week. However, our poll was slightly different. We didn’t just ask people “Whom will you vote for?” We gave them bulletins with names of candidates, very similar to those which will be at the real elections, and asked them to pick one of these candidates. About 43% of our respondents said that they would probably vote for Mr. Putin. However, not all of them were sure that they would come to the elections at all. Out of those who said that they would come by all means, Mr. Putin’s supporters make about 63%.” The Director of the Institute of Political Expertise Evgeny Minchenko says that, according to his estimations, Vladimir Putin’s chances to win these elections are about 50% to 50%: “A certain number of potential voters have not determined yet for whom they will vote. However, there are big chances that at least some of them would finally decide to vote fore Mr. Putin, for his rating is constantly growing.” The All-Russian Center of Public Opinion Studies has also held a so-called anti-rating poll – that is, the respondents answered the question: “Whom you won’t vote for by any means?” The first place in this “parade of anti-ratings” is occupied by Vladimir Zhirinovsky. More than 50% of the people polled said that they would not vote for him under any circumstances. The next unpopular candidate is Gennady Zyuganov. The 3rd place is occupied by Mikhail Prokhorov and Sergey Mironov. And, again, Vladimir Putin turned out to be the most popular candidate for presidency – only 14% of the respondents said that they won’t vote for him by any means. Only 18% of the people polled are convinced that the results of the presidential elections will be falsified. Ilya Kharlamov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, opinion poll, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 21####Early presidential election voting continues in Russia########Early presidential election voting is continuing in Russia. Today, lighthouse keepers on Sakhalin Island, the Kuril Islands and on the Kamchatka Peninsula cast their ballots which had been brought by helicopters.Early presidential election voting is continuing in Russia. Today, lighthouse keepers on Sakhalin Island, the Kuril Islands and on the Kamchatka Peninsula cast their ballots which had been brought by helicopters. A total of some 1,000 servicemen and noncommissioned officers of the Russian Pacific Fleet, as well as the military and civilian personnel of separate units are due to cast their ballots in early voting. The Russian presidential election has been set for March 4th. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 21####2,000 reporters accredited to Russia’s Central Elections Commission########Some 2,000 reporters, including more than 800 foreign journalists, have already been accredited to the Russian Elections Commission Information Centre, according to the Commission Head Vladimir Churov. The presidential election in Russia has been set for March 4th. The Information Centre will be operational on March 3rd through 5th. TASSSome 2,000 reporters, including more than 800 foreign journalists, have already been accredited to the Russian Elections Commission Information Centre, according to the Commission Head Vladimir Churov. The presidential election in Russia has been set for March 4th . The Information Centre will be operational on March 3rd through 5th . TASS Russia, mass media, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 21####Presidential marathon: 12 days ahead of elections########With the time ticking for the March 4 presidential elections in Russia, presidential candidates are trying to hold as many meetings with voters as they can, as well as give a series of interviews to mass media outlets. The goal is to promote their election programs and prod people to make a relevant choice.With the time ticking for the March 4 presidential elections in Russia, presidential candidates are trying to hold as many meetings with voters as they can, as well as give a series of interviews to mass media outlets. The goal is to promote their election programs and prod people to make a relevant choice. It seems that all is fair in love and war and pre-election campaign, reports the Voice of Russia’s Roman Mamonov, referring to a recent rally near the Ostankino television and radio tower in Moscow  which was initiated by presidential candidate and leader of A Just Russia party Sergei Mironov. He was quick to accuse the authorities of censorship and preventing the opposition from going in the air. "Our election video clips have repeatedly been banned because of the fear that the truth will out and that people will support my election program," Mironov says. "We have gathered here in Ostankino in a bid to voice protest against injustice. We also want to draw attention to the fact that some presidential candidates are banned from being on the air," Mironov concludes. Another presidential candidate Gennady Zyuganov, who is also the leader of the Russian Communist Party, recently heaped scorn on the government during his speech at the 1st Congress of the Organizers of Children’s Rest and Health Improvement. "The situation remains catastrophic," Zyuganov says, adding that tackling children’s rest and health improvement should become a key state priority. "Right now, this problem is still on the table of local authorities and administration," Zyuganov says, urging an improvement in the situation as soon as possible. Also hitting out at the authorities was presidential candidate and leader of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky who met students of the famous Shchukin Theater Institute in Moscow earlier this month. Among other promises, Zhirinovsky pledged more spending on culture in the event of his possible victory in the upcoming presidential elections. Billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, who is also running for presidency, vowed to change a regional policy and re-distribute financial injections. Speaking to reporters last week, Prokhorov specifically elaborated on the topic. "We should drastically review our regional policy in order to prevent an outflow of two thirds of revenues from the region to the federal center, where this money will be distributed in accordance with rather non-transparent schemes," Prokhorov says. Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin, meanwhile, continues his visit to Russia’s Siberia and Far East. Speaking at a news conference in Komsomolsk-on-Amur earlier this week, he expressed dissatisfaction about the current level of interaction between the Defense Ministry and enterprises of the defense complex within the framework of state defense order. Later on Tuesday, Putin is to arrive in the Altai region, where he will meet local police officers and businessmen. In the meantime, the All-Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion, or VTsIOM,  has released a poll, according to which Vladimir Putin is expected to gain 56,6 percent of the vote during the elections which will enable him to win in the first round. Second and third positions are held by Gennady Zyuganov and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, respectively. Coming on their heels is Mikhail Prokhorov who is thought to obtain not more than 8,7 percent of the vote, according to the VTsIOM poll.  Interestingly, respondents in Moscow and St.Petersburg unanimously claimed that in the end Prokhorov will take second place. Mikhail Romanov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 21####"Nashi" to organize "street monitoring" on the elections' day########Pro-Kremlin youth movements are going to take to the streets of Moscow 20 thousand people on a day of presidential elections on March 4, to prevent provocations from the opposition.Pro-Kremlin youth movements are going to take to the streets of Moscow 20 thousand people on a day of presidential elections on March 4, to prevent provocations from the opposition. "On March 4, 20 000 activists of the movement" Nashi " and the movement "Stal"(Steel) will take part in public events on the streets of Moscow to help counter any illegal attempts from the opposition to destabilize the situation in order to question the results of presidential elections", - said the press service of the movement "Nashi" received by "Interfax" on Tuesday. From March 4 to March 12 several thousand activists of the movement "Nashi "will organize round the clock monitoring of streets and squares of Moscow to prevent possible provocations", the report says. Press Service informs that the commissioner of "Nashi" Mary Kislitsyna said: "Movement "Nashi" will not allow those, who are trying to organize in Russia the"orange revolution", to engage in illegal activities and will oppose any activity outside the framework of Russian law. We are ready to bring to Moscow tens of thousands of our supporters who will protect the choice made by the Russians in a democratic election. " IF Russia, Nashi Movement, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 22####Early presidential voting started in Russia########The Russian presidential elections are slated to be on March 4th. However, early voting has already started in some remote regions of the country. What does this early voting look like?The Russian presidential elections are slated to be on March 4th . However, early voting has already started in some remote regions of the country. What does this early voting look like? Have there been any implementation of some of the promised voting reforms that were made by Russian president Dmitry Medvedev and the Prime Minister and also presidential candidate Vladimir Putin? Today we are joined on the line to discuss this with Denis Dvornikov, member of the Civic Chamber of the Russian Federation. Kim Brown Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 22####1,700 Russians called Central Elections Commission “hotline”########1,700 Russians have called the “hotline” that the Central Elections Commission has opened ahead of the forthcoming presidential election on March 4th. This came in a statement earlier today by the Director of the Russian Foundation for Free Elections, Igor Bogdanov. According to him, the bulk of those who called sought consultations on the electoral legislation.1,700 Russians have called the “hotline” that the Central Elections Commission has opened ahead of the forthcoming presidential election on March 4th . This came in a statement earlier today by the Director of the Russian Foundation for Free Elections, Igor Bogdanov. According to him, the bulk of those who called sought consultations on the electoral legislation. 16 complained about illegal campaigning, while 32 others, about violations in drawing up the lists of voters. Most complaints have already been acted on. The “hotline” has been operational since the sixth of this month.  RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 22####Russian Pacific Fleet crews cast ballots in early voting########The ITAR-TASS news agency reports with reference to a Russian naval officer that the crews of the Russian Pacific Fleet ships at Djibouti port have cast ballots in Russia’s early presidential election.The ITAR-TASS news agency reports with reference to a Russian naval officer that the crews of the Russian Pacific Fleet ships at Djibouti port have cast ballots in Russia’s early presidential election. According to the officer, the ballot boxes will be opened at the Russian Consulate General in Djibouti on March 4th, that is on the official Election Day. Russian seamen are involved in the international mission to fight sea piracy and ensure navigation security in the Gulf of Aden. The right to cast ballots in early voting is granted to Russians who make their home or currently are in remote or hard-of-access areas in Russia, or abroad. Early voting began in Russia on February 17th . TASS Russia, World, Pacific Fleet, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 23####Serb director Kusturica wants 'evolution' for Russia########Serbian filmmaker Emir Kusturica urged on Wednesday a "peaceful evolution" for Russia and warned against a repeat of post-Soviet chaos.Serbian filmmaker Emir Kusturica urged on Wednesday a "peaceful evolution" for Russia and warned against a repeat of post-Soviet chaos. "For every single Russian, from Vladivostok to Moscow, it's better to have a stable Russia than a Russia that will make experiments and play with feelings which could be very destructive," Kusturica said at a downtown St. Petersburg news conference. The double Palme d'Or-winning director said the Slavs possessed a "self-destructive force" and suggested that the U.S. model of democracy could not be forced upon Russia. "How can you talk about democracy to the grass in the tundra?" he said. Kusturica also praised Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin for bringing order to Russia, but said that if he were an American he would "fight" with him. "If I was English I would be very much against Vladimir Putin. If I was American I would even fight with him, but if I was Russian I would vote for him," the Bosnian-born director said. (RIAN) Russia, World, directors, Russian presidential election 2012, Emir Kusturica, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 24####130,000 people joined pro-Putin rally in Moscow########On February 23rd thousands gathered in Moscow to show their support for Vladimir Putin’s presidential bid for the Kremlin in March. The media reported about 130,000 people joined the four-hour-long peaceful demonstration at the Luzhniki Stadium. We are joined now to discuss what she saw at the rallies by our Moscow correspondent Anastasia FedorovaOn February 23rd thousands gathered in Moscow to show their support for Vladimir Putin’s presidential bid for the Kremlin in March. The media reported about 130,000 people joined the four-hour-long peaceful demonstration at the Luzhniki Stadium. We are joined now to discuss what she saw at the rallies by our Moscow correspondent Anastasia Fedorova. Crystal Park World, Opinion & Analysis, rally, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 24####Putin may win in 1st round – opinion poll services########Vladimir Putin may win the forthcoming Russian presidential election in the first round by polling 58.7% of the votes if the turnout is 61.8%, according to a survey by the Public Opinion Foundation.Vladimir Putin may win the forthcoming Russian presidential election in the first round by polling 58.7% of the votes if the turnout is 61.8%, according to a survey by the Public Opinion Foundation. The Levada Centre independent polling and sociological research organization also refers to Prime Minister Putin as the frontrunner among the presidential candidates, with 66% of those who will go to the polls on March 4th prepared to cast their ballots for him. This came in a statement at a news conference in Moscow on Friday by the Levada Centre Director, Lev Gudkov. In keeping with forecasts by the VTSIOM All-Russian Centre for the Study of Public Opinion, Vladimir Putin, running on the ruling United Russia party ticket, will win by polling 58.6% of the votes cast. IF, RIAN World, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 24####Elections to be observable from post offices########On the day of Russia’s next presidential elections on March 4th, the voting and the counting will be observable on free-access terminals installed at most of the country’s post offices. Each terminal can be hooked to a direct video feed from any of the polling stations.On the day of Russia’s next presidential elections on March 4th, the voting and the counting will be observable on free-access terminals installed at most of the country’s post offices. Each terminal can be hooked to a direct video feed from any of the polling stations. The open hours of each post office with a terminal in it will be from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. local time. 0TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 24####Echo of Luzhniki: a look at campaign rallies########With nine days to go before Russia’s presidential election, the opposition is planning mass actions in Moscow this Sunday. A string of campaign rallies swept the city on Thursday, including a huge pro-Putin rally at the Luzhniki Sports Arena. Vladimir Putin’s unusual rhetoric did not escape the attention of analysts.With nine days to go before Russia’s presidential election, the opposition is planning mass actions in Moscow this Sunday. A string of campaign rallies swept the city on Thursday, including a huge pro-Putin rally at the Luzhniki Sports Arena. Vladimir Putin’s unusual rhetoric did not escape the attention of analysts. The campaigning is getting hotter by the day, arousing more and more interest, even though most analysts are unanimous in saying that the outcome of the vote is fairly predictable. Opinion polls held by Russia’s main polling agencies – VTsIOM, Levada-Center and Public Opinion Foundation – suggest that Putin may receive between 53.5% and 66% of the votes, compared to the 50% plus one vote a candidate needs to win in the first round. Addressing a crowd of 130,000 supporters at Luzhniki, Putin asked them if they loved Russia and if they believed that they would win. “I have a dream”, he said, echoing Martin Luther King’s famous speech. Putin also recited a few lines from Mikhail Lermontov’s poem “Borodino”: “By Moscow then we die, as have our brethren died before”. He ended his speech with the Soviet-era Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Moltov’s famous phrase: “Victory will be ours!” Sociologist Olga Kryshtanovskaya thinks that the tonality of Putin’s speech stems from concern over political stability in the country. "Similar concern flares among his supporters. People are worrying about the future. The colossal protests in Bolotnaya Square and Sakharov Avenue have sparked anxiety. What if those people will really start rocking the boat, plunging Russia into an “orange” revolution? Where will the country go? Will it mean an end to stability? It was that anxiety that Putin’s speech – confident, tough and mobilizing – was supposed to address." To analyst Nikolai Petrov, Putin’s speech, particularly the phrase that “the battle for Russia is going on”, seemed a bit too bellicose. "It looks like it was easier for him to address United Russia activists. And there he felt a bit uneasy. He must have been advised to use the kind of manners that are used at public rallies, but they did not look organically in his interpretation. What did we see? He appeared for several minutes and did not look that confident, maybe because he had been advised to follow a certain pattern, or the things he said did not come from the bottom of his heart." Thursday’s speeches by other presidential candidates were also emotionally charged. Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky again talked about external enemies and called on Russians to take up arms, while Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, who comes second in opinion polls, compared the upcoming election to a war. Grigory Trofimchuk, Vice president of the Center for Strategic Development Modeling, thinks that such speeches only disorient voters: "I would recommend the main candidates to be less emotional. It’s not emotions but strength that people want to feel. Emotions are good for rallies.   Liberals stake on emotions, whereas a more serious and weighed position is expected of a candidate who represents the government." The next week promises to be rich in pre-election events with more TV debates, more campaign ads and more rallies coming up. Mikhail Romanov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, rally in support, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 25####Pre-election rehearsal due in Moscow today########A rehearsal of the forthcoming presidential election in Russia is due at 12 polling stations in Moscow today, with city residents being free to cast their ballots for Alexander the Great, Napoleon Bonaparte, Peter the Great, Winston Churchill or Genghis Khan.A rehearsal of the forthcoming presidential election in Russia is due at 12 polling stations in Moscow today, with city residents being free to cast their ballots for Alexander the Great, Napoleon Bonaparte, Peter the Great, Winston Churchill or Genghis Khan. This kind of “Doors Open Day” is held for the first time to show the way voting will take place on the 4th of next month. The mass media, political parties, organizations that will monitor the election, the presidential hopefuls and Moscow residents have been invited to take part in the event. The list of polling stations where ballots could be cast is due to be posted on the Moscow Elections Commission website. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 25####Russian presidential election campaign on homestretch########The Russian presidential election campaign is on the homestretch now that the presidential hopefuls have just one week left for campaigning. Next Saturday is no-campaigning day, with the election due on Sunday, March 4th. Early voting is already on in remote or hard-of-access Russian regions. Migrating reindeer breeders are casting their ballots in the north of Siberia.The Russian presidential election campaign is on the homestretch now that the presidential hopefuls have just one week left for campaigning. Next Saturday is no-campaigning day, with the election due on Sunday, March 4th . Early voting is already on in remote or hard-of-access Russian regions. Migrating reindeer breeders are casting their ballots in the north of Siberia. Election commission members in the Magadan region, in the Russian Far East, are due to take ballot boxes to oilmen working on a rotational basis, as well as to fishermen out at sea, so they, too, could cast their ballots in the election. TV Channel One Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 25####Russia’s elections will be ‘free and fair’ – Shchegolev########The Russian authorities have done everything in their power to ensure that the March 4th presidential elections will be free and fair. Video footage from the web cameras installed at each polling station will allow anyone who cares to challenge the results of the forthcoming poll in court.The Russian authorities have done everything in their power to ensure that the March 4th presidential elections will be free and fair. Video footage from the web cameras installed at each polling station will allow anyone who cares to challenge the results of the forthcoming poll in court.    Telecommunications Minister Ivan Scshegolev spoke about this on Russian television Saturday. He argued that Russia is the best country in the world at ensuring electoral fairness. 0(TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 25####Opposition supporters rally in St Pete########Speakers at an opposition rally in St Petersburg have urged their backers to volunteer for acting as independent observers of Russia’s next presidential elections on March 4th. Police estimated the crowd at 2.5 thousand, while the organizers put the figure at more like 15 thousand.Speakers at an opposition rally in St Petersburg have urged their backers to volunteer for acting as independent observers of Russia’s next presidential elections on March 4th. Police estimated the crowd at 2.5 thousand, while the organizers put the figure at more like 15 thousand. The rally passed a resolution calling for ’free and fair elections’. Similar rallies in December and early February challenged the official results of the latest parliamentary elections on December 4th. The vote gave more than one half of the Duma seats to the United Russia party. (RIAN) Russia, St. Petersburg, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 25####Opposition disunited########Led by Garry Kasparov, Alexei Navalny and Sergei Udaltsov, Russian opposition supporters rallied and marched in central St Petersburg Saturday to demand what they called ‘fair elections’ and try to overcome divisions in their ranks. Police estimated the crowd at 2.5 thousand, while the organizers put the figure.Led by Garry Kasparov, Alexei Navalny and Sergei Udaltsov, Russian opposition supporters rallied and marched in central St Petersburg Saturday to demand what they called ‘fair elections’ and try to overcome divisions in their ranks. Police estimated the crowd at 2.5 thousand, while the organizers put the figure. The Communists and the Yabloko followers had refused to rally together with the leftists and radical nationalists and were conspicuous by their absence. Initially, there were just about 500 people at the gathering, and the three leaders did not turn up until the crowd had grown to about 3 thousand. The number proved a far cry from the 30 thousand that rallied in St Pete on February 4th. Most marchers showed complete tolerance towards their political opponents, who were marching together with them. One woman had this to say: "I have come here together with my husband. We both support the demand for fair elections. Our decision to join the march was influenced by the fact that all marches of this kind in the past have passed off quite peacefully. As for the nationalists, I do not share their views. But let them march if they like". One man said he was prepared to attend both opposition and pro-government rallies: "I am not a follower of anything or anybody. I am marching on my own. On March 4th, I will vote for Vladimir Putin. I can see no alternative to him". A subsequent rally in Koniushennaya Square heard a keynote address from Garry Kasparov: "Be it in Moscow or be it in St Pete, we are many and they are few. We are free citizens, and they are not. They are hiding behind police lines because they know they stand no chance in any real elections. Provided, of course, that they respect the law and do not challenge simple arithmetic. Results like 146 percent in their favour are ridiculous". Popular blogger Alexei Navalny called for a united show of opposition force on the day after the presidential elections. He also pointed out that his intentions are strictly peaceful: "They are trying to scare us by conjuring up the specter of a revolution. Our revolution, however, is strictly peaceful. It is aimed at giving power to the people! It is aimed at allowing the left, the right, the Reds and the Greens to get as many votes as they really win, not as they are apportioned by swindlers in election commissions". In an interview with The Voice of Russia at the rally, leader of the Left Front Sergei Udaltsov, whose organization has an electoral coordination agreement with the Communists, regretted their absence in Koniushennaya Square: "Unlike at Moscow rallies, the atmosphere here is electric and quite revolutionary. I urge everybody to turn out for the elections. I will vote against Putin. On March 5th, the opposition will take to the streets to protect its votes from being stolen. I do hope the Communists will join the protests. It’s time to unite and act in unison. Quarreling is counterproductive". When Udaltsov spoke from the podium, leader of the ‘Russian Imperial Movement’ Nikolai Bondarik, who has a long record of taking part in scuffles and even shootouts during political events, tried but failed to wrest the microphone from the organizers. Other incidents, if any, didn’t turn a single head, including that of a police officer. Polina Chernitsa Russia, Opinion & Analysis, St. Petersburg, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 26####Early voting under way in Russia########Early voting is under way in remote areas of Russia ahead of presidential elections on March 4th. Election officials had to cover hundreds of kilometers of the snow-covered taiga in sport utility vehicles and snowmobiles to reach 94 voters living in faraway villages of the Altai Region in Siberia.Early voting is under way in remote areas of Russia ahead of presidential elections on March 4th . Election officials had to cover hundreds of kilometers of the snow-covered taiga in sport utility vehicles and snowmobiles to reach 94 voters living in faraway villages of the Altai Region in Siberia. A military helicopter was sent to deliver ballot papers for residents of Chechen’ Island in Dagestan after waterway services were disrupted because of ice. Early voting began on February 17th and will end on March 2nd, the day before the so-called “day of silence” on March 3rd . March 4th will see the first round of presidential elections in Russia. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 26####Farewell to political winter########This Sunday, opponents of Russia’s Prime Minister and candidate for presidency Vladimir Putin set even two pickets in Moscow. One was called “The big white ring,” and the other “Farewell to the political winter.” In total, the two pickets gathered over 10,000 people.This Sunday, opponents of Russia’s Prime Minister and candidate for presidency Vladimir Putin set even two pickets in Moscow. One was called “The big white ring,” and the other “Farewell to the political winter.” In total, the two pickets gathered over 10,000 people. For all their annoyance against the government, the participants looked peacefully-minded and even cheerful. “The big white ring” took place at Sadovoe Koltso. “Sadovoe Koltso,” or the Sadovoe Ring, is a name applied to a ring of streets which gird Moscow’s center. Many of these streets have the word “Sadovaya,” which means “garden,” as a part of their names – for example, Big Sadovaya or Sadovaya-Kudrinskaya. When the organizers of this rally announced about it on the Web, they invited people to stand hand-in-hand to form a ring that would grid the whole Sadovoe Koltso. However, many Web users were skeptical whether this idea was implementable. First, they said that there are many places at Sadovoe Koltso where pedestrians are not allowed or which are hard to enter, like tunnels or overhead roads. Second, they doubted that the riot would gather enough people to occupy the whole Sadovoe Koltso, for only about 15,000 people have announced on the Web that they would take part. However, the riot’s participants did manage to cover the whole Sadovoe Koltso standing hand in hand, though it is hard to say whether these 10,000 people were enough for that or, probably, the number of those who came was really much bigger. The protestors had white ribbons pinned to their jackets, which have already become a sign to distinguish Mr. Putin’s opponents. Some of them were also wearing white scarves or had white balloons in hands. As far as the riot had not been sanctioned by the authorities, the participants didn’t chant any slogans. Some people on cars who were driving by expressed their solidarity with the rioters with signals of their cars’ horn, and the rioters answered with whistles. An 18-year-old girl called Olga says that she came to this riot because she has learned about it from the Web. “As far as I turned 18 only several moths ago, the parliamentary elections in December were the first elections in which I took part. But I realized from what I saw that the elections’ results were falsified. What I felt because of this can be qualified as nausea. After that, I became interested in politics. I believe that if you don’t support the current authorities, it is your duty to take part in riots of protest. These rallies help opponents of the current authorities to see that there are many of them.” Participants of the other riot, called “Farewell to the political winter,” were probably more passionate, though also not aggressive. The riot was organized by a movement called The Left Front. This Sunday, many Muscovites were celebrating Shrovetide. In Russia, Shrovetide, traditionally, is the holiday of parting with winter and welcoming spring. That is why the riot’s organizers named it “Farewell to the political winter.” Like “The White Ring,” this riot has not been sanctioned by the authorities either, but its organizers ignored this ban. The place where the riot was to take place, the Revolution Square in Moscow’s center, was encircled by so many police cordons that only a small space, which could hardly hold 1,000 people, was left to the rioters. So, many of them had to support their comrades only by watching from the outside. Participants of this rally also wore white ribbons and carried white scarves, but some of them also had straw dolls (in Russia, there is a tradition to burn a straw effigy on Shrovetide) or toys depicting Father Frost (the Russian analogue of Santa Clause) in their hands. One of the Fathers Frosts had words “Russia should be frozen” written on it. The owner of this toy, a young man called Andrey, said: “This is a quote from Konstantin Leontyev, a Russian conservative philosopher of the 19th century. His most famous phrase is: “Russia should be frozen – otherwise it will rot.” There may be a point in what Leontyev said, but I believe that at present, Russia should not be frozen. Now, I want spring to finally come to Russia.” “The atmosphere of this riot is very positive,” Andrey continues, “and let this atmosphere remain in Russia for long. People must have the right to express their opinions.” Of course, not all Muscovites, either old or young, are minded against Vladimir Putin. One could see young people with velvet hearts, like on St. Valentine’s Day, with “Putin loves you all” written on them, in Moscow’s streets this Sunday. There also were big placards with the colors of the Russian flag – white, blue and red – and inscriptions “Putin and nothing else!” on several houses on this day. Very little time is left before the presidential elections in Russia. They are scheduled for March 4. Milena Faustova Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 27####Russian elections: $ 1bln for transparency########Russia’s biggest fixed line telephone service provider Rostelecom said it installed 15000 sets of web cameras for the March presidential elections following the government’s promise to eliminate any possibility of ballot staffing. Web cameras are to be installed in more than 91 000 voting stations allowing a total 25 million users to view the broadcast.Russia’s biggest fixed line telephone service provider Rostelecom said it installed 15000 sets of web cameras for the March presidential elections following the government’s promise to eliminate any possibility of ballot staffing. Web cameras are to be installed in more than 91 000 voting stations allowing a total 25 million users to view the broadcast. Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin offered in December to put web cameras in all polling stations to counter charges of fraud in the March 4th presidential elections. The cost of the project may reach 30 billion Rubles or approximately 1 billion dollars. We will talk more about the installation of the cameras and the efforts to have more transparency with the elections with Vladislav Gaganov, Deputy Director of the Russian Public Institute of Electoral Law.   Rob Sachs Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 27####Putin poised for outright victory########Russia’s VTSIOM opinion pollsters believe the presidential elections on March 4th will bring an outright victory to Vladimir Putin. He is poised to win 53.5% of the vote.Russia’s VTSIOM opinion pollsters believe the presidential elections on March 4th will bring an outright victory to Vladimir Putin. He is poised to win 53.5% of the vote. The Communist Gennady Ziuganov can look forward to getting 11%, the Liberal Democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky, 8%, billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov, 6%, and leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov, 4%. The margin of error in these forecasts is 3.4%. Symptomatically, Putin and Prokhorov have been gaining voter support. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 27####Early voting for President under way########Russian servicemen and voters in remote locations are already casting their ballots in the presidential elections, the bulk of which is scheduled to take place on March 4th. Over 6 thousand Russian expats have already taken part, turning up at 166 polling stations at Russian offices abroad. The number came from Russian diplomatic spokesman Alexander Lukashevich.Russian servicemen and voters in remote locations are already casting their ballots in the presidential elections, the bulk of which is scheduled to take place on March 4th . Over 6 thousand Russian expats have already taken part, turning up at 166 polling stations at Russian offices abroad. The number came from Russian diplomatic spokesman Alexander Lukashevich. There are five candidates in the race – Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist Gennady Ziuganov, the Liberal Democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky, leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov and billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 28####Publication of presidential election forecasts banned in Russia########The publication of public opinion poll returns, forecasts and other type of research related to the March 4th presidential election has been banned in Russia as of today, to make it possible for the voters to decide on their own who they want to cast their ballots for. This coming Saturday will be a no-campaigning day.The publication of public opinion poll returns, forecasts and other type of research related to the March 4th presidential election has been banned in Russia as of today, to make it possible for the voters to decide on their own who they want to cast their ballots for. This coming Saturday will be a no-campaigning day. Running for the presidency in Russia are Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the Chairman of the Communist Party Gennady Zyuganov, the leader of A Just Russia party Sergei Mironov, and businessman Mikhail Prokhorov.     (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 28####Churov urges that election returns be counted up quickly########The Head of the Russian Central Elections Commission Vladimir Churov has urged his colleagues at local elections commissions to maximally quickly count up the returns of the March 4th presidential election. He warned that all election protocols should be entered into the GAS-Vybory election electronic system by 9:00 a.m. on March 5th.The Head of the Russian Central Elections Commission Vladimir Churov has urged his colleagues at local elections commissions to maximally quickly count up the returns of the March 4th presidential election. He warned that all election protocols should be entered into the GAS-Vybory election electronic system by 9:00 a.m. on March 5th. Churov says he will seek prosecutors’ assistance in case of any delays or irregularities. Churov told a meeting of the Central Elections Commission in Moscow that 4,000 Russian and foreign reporters will cover the forthcoming presidential election. Running for the presidency are Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist Party Chairman Gennady Zyuganov, the leaders of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky, and of A Just Russia party, Sergei Mironov; and also businessman Mikhail Prokhorov.  (IF) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 28####Russia, US to improve relations after Russian elections - Congressman Meeks########Russian-US relations, including trade and economic relations, will improve following the Russian presidential elections, a Democratic Congressman, Member of the Financial Services and Foreign Relations Committees, Gregory Meeks, has said in Moscow.Russian-US relations, including trade and economic relations, will improve following the Russian presidential elections, a Democratic Congressman, Member of the Financial Services and Foreign Relations Committees, Gregory Meeks, has said in Moscow. According to him, following the inauguration of a new Russian President Russia will become a fully-fledged member of the World Trade Organization and will demand that the US reciprocate by repealing the Jackson-Vanik discriminatory amendment. According to the politician, US companies are unable to enter the Russian market because of the amendment; it’s high time we realized that the Cold War is long since over, he added.  (RIAN) Russia, World, Russian-US relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 28####Russia readies for March 4 vote########The March 4 presidential vote in Russia looks all set to  become this country’s most transparent ever, according to participants in a meeting just held at the Central Elections Commission headquarters in Moscow.  Virtually all polling places are fitted out with web cameras to provide an online picture of the voting process.The March 4 presidential vote in Russia looks all set to  become this country’s most transparent ever, according to participants in a meeting just held at the Central Elections Commission headquarters in Moscow.  Virtually all polling places are fitted out with web cameras to provide an online picture of the voting process. The chief elections commissioner, Vladimir Churov, has instructed his  staff on the ground to make sure that all election protocols are uploaded to the  election electronic system already before 9 am on March 5. All delays and violations will immediately be  reported to the Prosecutor General’s office. There are five candidates vying for the country’s top job: PM Vladimir Putin, Communist party leader Gennady Zyuganov, A Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov, Liberal Democrat chief Vladimir Zhirinovsky and billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov.  (IF) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 28####Russia-US relations after elections: prospects and challenges########On the eve of the upcoming presidential relations in Russia the US-Russia relations take center stage at the 31st World Russian Forum in Washington, which has gathered prominent political analysts and public activists.On the eve of the upcoming presidential relations in Russia the US-Russia relations take center stage at the 31st World Russian Forum in Washington, which has gathered prominent political analysts and public activists. The presidential election in Russia will be held on March 4, while US citizens will be voting for a new leader on November 4.  Many participants and guests of the forum in Washington note that after the political power in both countries is “renewed” bilateral relations between the two countries may be revised. At least for now, before the elections the presidential candidates both in Russia and the US are coming up with rather tough foreign policies. The US Democratic party  has already nominated Barack Obama whose policies tend to be Russia-friendly. The Republicans are now holding primaries and as of now their most likely candidate is Mitt Romney, who has a rather strange view of Russia, the president of the American University in Moscow Eduard Lozansky says: "Romney went too far when he said that the level of democracy in Russia is so low that the US should start paying more attention to Central Asian countries which could help it extent influence on Russia. It is common knowledge that in Central Asia the level of democracy is much lower than in Russia. In comparison with Central Asia Russia is like a shining beacon of democracy. When someone says, on the one hand that, he cherishes democratic values and on the other hand, that he plans to use authoritarian regimes to put pressure on Russia,  which is more democratic country, that simply characterizes him as a cynical person". As part of their electoral campaigns Russia’s presidential candidates are also making tough statements with regard to the US, promising to revise Russia’s foreign policy. However one shouldn’t expect any drastic changes here. Just like any other state, Russia has its basic foreign policy platform which does not change with the change of power, political analyst Sergey Markedonov says: "It is not quite correct to link changes in foreign policies with the elections. There are many issues which do not directly concern Putin, or a President as such. For example, the situation on the territories of the post-Soviet states and in the Middle East.  Will the new president go to Tbilisi immediately after the election and withdraw Abkhazia’s and South Ossetia’s recognition? Of course he won’t. There is a certain objective factor in a country’s foreign policy and in this case the name of the president is not that important". Most of the US political analysts who were interviewed by the “Voice of Russia” at the forum said that Russia and the US need one another. For example, both countries are concerned about the situation in the East particularly in China. That is why they should stay together at least on this issue to try to counterbalance the East’s growing might. According to the experts, in Russia the candidates’ views of foreign policy are unlikely to seriously influence the outcome of the elections. However for the US this issue could become a decisive factor. Even today many Republicans are ready to vote for Obama only because they do not want to lose a partner like Russia. Anastasiya Pershkina Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian-US relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 29####PACE delegation arrives in Russia to monitor elections########A delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is arriving in Russia to observe the presidential elections.The parliamentarians will work in Moscow, St. Petersburg, Kazan, Nizhny Novgorod, Petropavlovsk, Republic of Adygea. In the Russian capital, observers will be meeting with the presidential candidates, the head of the Central Elections’ Commission Vladimir Churov, as well as diplomats and NGO activists. Preliminary findings of the observers will be published Monday, March 5. Currently, monitoring of the presidential election campaign is being carried out by over a hundred international observers, working on long- term basis. (TASS) Russia, PACE, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 29####What will happen to reset after Russian, U.S. elections?########The results of the March 4 presidential election in Russia and the November 6 presidential election in the United States will be crucial to the future of the U.S.-Russian reset policy.  Launched by U.S. President Barack Obama soon after came to power, the reset has been rolling on with varying success for more than three years.The results of the March 4 presidential election in Russia and the November 6 presidential election in the United States will be crucial to the future of the U.S.-Russian reset policy.  Launched by U.S. President Barack Obama soon after came to power, the reset has been rolling on with varying success for more than three years. It peaked in April 2010 when the new Russian-American Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty was signed in Prague, but then slowed down sharply over Washington’s plans to build a missile defense shield in Europe with Russia vehemently opposing them. The follow-up turbulent events in Northern Africa and the Middle East revealed serious disagreements between the two countries over how the acute problems facing the Arab world should be approached. The same can be said of the situation around Iran. Finally, the pre-election campaign in Russia and the United States has pushed domestic problems to the foreground. Yet despite the above circumstances and despite the fact that both sides have been closely watching each other, the Russian-U.S. relations have on the whole improved under Obama. Will the reset continue after the presidential elections? Most experts agree that it will if Vladimir Putin becomes Russia’s next president and Barack Obama returns to the White House. But there may be other options in case Obama fails to win a second term. Two major events held in Washington a few days ago prove that the future of Russian-American relations arouses huge interest. One was a roundtable on the issue and the other was the World Russia Forum with prominent politicians and experts from both countries attending. Although opinions divided, everyone agreed that broader cooperation in various fields was needed. Congressman Gregory Meeks believes that much will depend on bilateral trade. Unfortunately, the “cold war”-era Jackson-Vanik amendment restricting trade with Russia is still in force. The “cold war” has long become a thing of the past, yet continues to hamper business, the congressman said. It’s hard to disagree with Mr. Meeks. But far from all U.S. congressmen share this view, which explains why President Obama’s repeated promises to lift Jackson-Vanik remain unfulfilled. A recent opinion poll held by the authoritative Gallup service shows that the number of Americans who see Russia as a threat has shrunk dramatically from more than 30% two decades ago to just 2% now. Let’s hope that the trust-building momentum will be preserved after the elections. Andrei Ptashnikov Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian-US relations, Russian presidential election 2012, US presidential elections 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 February 29####Elections in Russia: what the opposition’s next trick will be?########A group of people selling absentee vote certificates for the coming presidential elections has been detained in the Moscow metro.A group of people selling absentee vote certificates for the coming presidential elections has been detained in the Moscow metro. At the same time, video “evidence” that the presidential elections’ results were falsified has appeared on the Web, although the elections haven’t taken place yet – they will be held on March 4. Of course, this “evidence” is falsified itself. In whole, passions are now aggravated like they have probably never been within the whole history of presidential elections in Russia. The sellers of absentee vote certificates were detained at one of the stations of the Moscow metro on Tuesday night. In an interview with the Voice of Russia, a spokesman for the Moscow police Maxim Kolosvetov said: “We detained both the sellers and the buyers – in total, 5 people. The sellers are members of a political movement called “Solidarnost”, or “solidarity”. At present, an investigation is under way to find out whether this bargain was legitimate.” However, the sellers of the certificates say that they were not violating laws, but, on the contrary, were trying to prevent a law violation. Allegedly, they have read an ad “We’ll buy absentee vote certificates” on the Web and appointed a meeting with those who had published the ad to disclose them. This case is still to be investigated, but those who were trying to buy the absentee vote certificates, most likely, wanted to use them for falsifying the results of the presidential elections. If one has such a certificate, he or she can vote not only at the polling station to which he or she is accredited, but at any polling station in Russia. If one has several such certificates, he or she can vote several times. Russia’s Central Election Commission is intending its own investigation of this case. A spokesman for the Commission Nikolay Konkin says: “We are trying to find out the numbers of these certificates and to investigate who has received them and where. After that we, most likely, will announce these certificates illegitimate.” Recently, the Central Election Commission finished the accreditation of international observers who will work at the presidential elections. A delegation of about 200 people from the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has recently come to Russia. In total, about 500 international observers have received invitations from the Central Election Commission. This seems to be quite enough to find out whether the elections’ results will be falsified or not. By the way, the story with fake video evidence of the alleged fraud at the yet-to-be-held presidential elections, which has appeared on the Web, is not new. Hundreds of similar videos appeared on the Web after the parliamentary elections in Russia in December. “The fact that the opposition is fabricating video “evidence” of frauds at the elections before the elections are held is hardly to the credit of the opposition,” the head of the Social Justice Party Alexey Podberyozkin says. “I believe that this will not be the only trick of the opposition to make people believe that the elections were unfair.” However, the opposition, in its turn, denies that it has anything to do with these videos, calling them a provocation. Only several days are left before the presidential elections in Russia, but one can only guess what new surprises these few days may bring. Maria Vesnovskaya Russia, Opinion & Analysis, opposition, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 01####Prospects for Russia-US relations after elections########The future of U.S.-Russian relations is one of the main subjects of interest in the world especially now with both countries undergoing presidential elections that may improve or intensify them. Over the past several months the relations have been extremely sensitive due to disagreements on Syria, Iran, Afghanistan, the NATO missile shield and some others.The future of U.S.-Russian relations is one of the main subjects of interest in the world especially now with both countries undergoing presidential elections that may improve or intensify them. Over the past several months the relations have been extremely sensitive due to disagreements on Syria, Iran, Afghanistan, the NATO missile shield and some others. New York University professor of Russian Studies Stephen Cohen warned that America and Russia are potentially at the fateful crossroads in their relationship. Cohen spoke at the 31st annual World Russia Forum, which was held in the Hart Senate Building. He was joined by the leading American and Russian experts. This event has been held since 1981. This year the Forum was dedicated to the upcoming Russian and American presidential elections and the most important issues in U.S.-Russia relations after these elections. Liudmila Chernova Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian-US relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Interview, US presidential elections 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 01####Russia’s Legal Literacy Day helps to conduct free and fair elections########Russia is commemorating its Legal Literacy Day, and young lawyers from the “Free and Fair Elections” organization are helping those who want to sort out election procedures and subtleties in monitoring elections.  On the 4th of March, its members, tens of thousands of students and graduates from Law Colleges, will monitor Russia’s presidential elections.Russia is commemorating its Legal Literacy Day, and young lawyers from the “Free and Fair Elections” organization are helping those who want to sort out election procedures and subtleties in monitoring elections.  On the 4th of March, its members, tens of thousands of students and graduates from Law Colleges, will monitor Russia’s presidential elections. Russia’s main political event will take place in a few days. As the voting day approaches, Russians’ interest in the event grows. People want to know how and where to get absentee voting certificates, how to vote abroad, what to do if a person is on the road, at an airport or a railway station during the elections. The volunteers of the “Free and Fair Elections” organization will answer these and other question on the Legal Literacy Day. Students, post-graduate students and lecturers at Law Colleges receive citizens at public receptions, says the head of the organization Denis Panshin in an interview with the Voice of Russia. “The Legal Literacy Day is a peculiar flashmob. Our legal assistance centres are located across the country, from big cities to small villages. Mobile legal consultations are also organized in small settlements. Volunteers from the monitors unit will arrive there on special busses at a fixed time,” says Denis Panshin. The volunteers of the organization are planning to monitor the presidential election. Over 70,000 observers from this public organization will post video and photo coverage from polling stations on Twitter, Facebook, Youtube and other Internet resources. In short, the live-situation at polling stations can be watched. Moreover, all data related to casting votes will be directed to the “Elections 2012” situation centre organized by young lawyers of the unit, says Denis Panshin. “We as lawyers have all possibilities and resources that will help us to make an unbiased and professional assessment of the forthcoming presidential elections. The experts of our organization will follow up on the situation at all polling stations through webcams. Moreover, special system of SMS notification will function, and this will help to respond to any violation swiftly,” Denis Panshin said.  Lada Korotun Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 01####667 observers to monitor Russian presidential election – Churov########A total of 667 international observers will monitor the March 4 presidential election in Russia, Vladimir Churov, head of the Russian Central Elections Commission, said on Thursday.A total of 667 international observers will monitor the March 4 presidential election in Russia, Vladimir Churov, head of the Russian Central Elections Commission, said on Thursday. They include 8 observers from the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, 219 - from the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, 37 - from the Council of Europe’s Parliamentary Assembly, 21 – from the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, 231- from the Commonwealth of Independent States and 44 - from the Commonwealth of Independent States’ Inter-Parliamentary Assembly. The leaders of Russia’s four political parties - the ruling United Russia, the Communist Party, A Just Russia and the Liberal Democratic Party- are running for presidency, apart from Vladimir Putin. They are Gennady Zyuganov, Sergei Mironov and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, respectively. In addition, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov will run in the election as an independent. IF Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 01####Russia will not put up with political pressure - Lavrov########Russia will not ignore outside attempts to influence its political and electoral processes, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov declared in an interview published on The Rossiyskaya Gazeta’s web site ahead of the presidential election which is to be held in Russia on the 4th of March.Russia will not ignore outside attempts to influence its political and electoral processes, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov declared in an interview published on The Rossiyskaya Gazeta’s web site ahead of the presidential election which is to be held in Russia on the 4th of March. He added that in the US any foreign financing of political and especially electoral activities of US non-governmental organizations is illegal. “It is time for us to adjust our laws to ensure that they meet these democratic standards,” Lavrov stressed. The Russian foreign minister believes that gone are the days when Russia could be lectured or reprimanded by anyone. “Our American partners are very well aware of this but Washington has not yet managed to shed their old stereotypes,” the minister said. RIAN Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 02####"I'm sure you'll make right choice" - Medvedev########In a televised address to the nation on Friday, Russia’s outgoing President Dmitry Medvedev called on citizens to go to polling stations on Sunday to elect a new president.In a televised address to the nation on Friday, Russia’s outgoing President Dmitry Medvedev called on citizens to go to polling stations on Sunday to elect a new president. “We all want positive changes; whether in the city or in the village, we all want our country to be democratic and prosperous and our people to have a decent and happy life,” Medvedev said. “We all need order and justice, and strict observance of human rights and freedoms.” The future president, he said, should “work efficiently” to make citizens’ lives better by improving the country’s economy and defense and strengthening its image in the international arena. Five candidates will compete for the presidency in the March 4 elections – Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, nationalist LDPR party head Vladimir Zhirinovsky, A Just Russia party leader Sergei Mironov and billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. “Only you, voters, can decide who of the candidates deserve your votes,” Medvedev said. “I am sure you will make the right choice.” (RIAN) Russia, Dmitry Medvedev, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 02####Putin confirms plans to make Medvedev Premier if becomes President########Russian prime minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin confirmed on Friday his plans to appoint current President Dmitry Medvedev as prime minister in the next government should he win the March 4 elections.Russian prime minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin confirmed on Friday his plans to appoint current President Dmitry Medvedev as prime minister in the next government should he win the March 4 elections. “My offer to him and our agreement on such power sharing, it’s not only about [our] willingness to stay in power, but also to continue the reforms that have been launched,” Putin said during a meeting with editors-in-chief of several leading foreign newspapers in his Novo-Ogaryovo residence near Moscow. In September last year, Putin and Medvedev announced their plans to swap jobs after Medvedev's presidential term expires in 2012. Putin said the plans were agreed four years ago when he picked Medvedev as his successor on the presidential post. (RIAN) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Medvedev-Putin tandem, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 02####Campaigning over ahead of Russian presidential election########The period of campaigning is drawing to a close ahead of Russia’s presidential election this coming Sunday. This Friday is the last day when the presidential hopefuls are allowed to address their electorate from TV screens or call rallies. Saturday is the so-called day of silence.The period of campaigning is drawing to a close ahead of Russia’s presidential election this coming Sunday. This Friday is the last day when the presidential hopefuls are allowed to address their electorate from TV screens or call rallies. Saturday is the so-called day of silence. President Dmitry Medvedev has urged Russians in a televised address to share responsibility for the country by casting their ballots in the forthcoming election. Running for the presidency are the Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the Chairman of the Communist Party of Russia Gennady Zyuganov, the leader of Just Russia party Sergei Mironov, businessman Mikhail Prokhorov, and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 02####An error of perception########Vladimir Putin’s recent article in the daily Moskovskiye Novosti, in which he as a presidential candidate laid out his foreign policy program, provoked lively reactions from both Russian and foreign experts, if only because the other candidates either chose to avoid the foreign policy issue or express their views superficially and vaguely.Vladimir Putin’s recent article in the daily Moskovskiye Novosti, in which he as a presidential candidate laid out his foreign policy program, provoked lively reactions from both Russian and foreign experts, if only because the other candidates either chose to avoid the foreign policy issue or express their views superficially and vaguely. Regardless, it does not matter how anyone treats the current Prime Minister, as he was the only presidential candidate to speak about his foreign policy in detail. One of the themes raised in the article are Russian-American relations. Criticizing the current policy of the White House towards Moscow, the Prime Minister brought up a very important issue, which in my opinion is the main cause of the failure in the dialogue with Washington. That is "how Russia is perceived on Capitol Hill." Judging by the steps that the United States is taking, it does not consider our country an equal partner in negotiations on issues that affect the strategic balance of power in the world. However, the reason for this perception lies in the US itself. Speaking simply, the stumbling block is the "idealized" role of Washington on the international arena, and as a consequence its "belittling" of Russia. The belief in American exceptionalism traditionally held by many of its elite, and its messianism, leads the US to claim a privileged status in the community of nations. In the international arena, the United States, as if to remove itself from the frames, makes it clear that it is an “indispensable nation” without which nothing on earth can or should happen. Such an ideological position, i.e. maintaining the leading role of America in the world, has led to a special approach to the issue of Washington's national security. Vladimir Putin wrote about this in particular in his article: "...the United States has formed a kind of understanding of security that is fundamentally different from ours. The Americans are obsessed with the idea of ensuring their absolute invulnerability – a thing, I would point out, that is utopian and unachievable either from a technological or a geopolitical standpoint." However, in its pursuit of more and more security, the United States does not strengthen the world but rather has a major impact on global stability. Specialists in international relations are well acquainted with such terms as "security dilemma". Whenever any state strengthens its security unilaterally, it challenges other countries and forces them to strengthen their military capabilities (using either symmetric or asymmetric methods). As a result, an arms race starts in which everyone loses. Today one of the most pressing issues in relations between Russia and the United States is the creation of an American missile defense system. In 2001, the US decided to withdraw from the treaty of 1972 on missile defense and thus took the first step toward the destruction of the existing strategic balance of forces in the international arena. And of course, Russia's reaction to Washington's decision was purely negative. Putin's critics often ask him: “Why are other countries less troubled by the US's actions concerning missile defense? Why does Moscow take a proactive stance on this issue? Isn't it counterproductive for Russian-American relations?” In answering these questions, we note two fundamental points. First, in choosing between firm guarantees of our country’s security and good relations with the United States, Russia is doing absolutely right in choosing the former. Second, Moscow’s sharply critical position on the issue of missile defense is a result of its status as a power whose strategic nuclear capability is a cornerstone of the existing global balance of power. And that is why our country has a larger share of the responsibility for military security in the world than many other international actors. It should be emphasized: if Russia shows weakness on this issue, then we will be faced with several trends that in a very short time will undermine and perhaps destroy international security. First of all, Washington will inevitably be tempted to use its strategic invulnerability for unilateral military-political and economic advantages. At the same time, the number of countries that will start to pursue a policy of "reassurance" of this scenario and take the path of increasing their military capabilities will dramatically increase. Inevitably, the potential for global conflict will sharply increase. In the dialogue on missile defense, which is the most sensitive military-strategic issue of our time, Russia takes a constructive approach. It not only acts as a sound critic of US unilateralism but also offers an alternative, i.e. building a missile defense system together with Washington that would not destroy the balance of power on the international arena. In fact, the Americans made such a proposal in 2007 in Kennebunkport. The United States’ consistent refusal to cooperate with Russia on missile defense issues suggests that on the one hand, it is finally headed toward the creation of a new strategic reality in the modern world. On the other hand, in relations with our country, it uses what a prominent American expert on Russia, Stephen Cohen, aptly describes as "selective cooperation" refusing to respond to the concerns of its partner. 0There is no doubt that this policy contradicts the long-term interests of the United States. As Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said, "in relations with the US, we are ready to go very far to achieve a substantial breakthrough provided the Americans conduct themselves according to the principles of an equal and mutually-respectful partnership." However, such a scenario is still very far away. And today, unfortunately, we are forced to follow the logic, if not of the Cold War, then of a cold peace. Anyway, we will be forced to do so until Washington learns to take a different view of both itself and Russia. Alexey Alexey Pilko Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, mass media, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Alexey Pilko, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 02####Russia: steps taken to ensure election fairness########Russia has equipped all of its 91 thousand or so polling stations with transparent ballot boxes and web cameras in an effort to make sure that its March 4th presidential elections will be free and fair. The polls will be held under the watchful eyes of some 300 thousand Russian and 600 foreign observers.Russia has equipped all of its 91 thousand or so polling stations with transparent ballot boxes and web cameras in an effort to make sure that its March 4th presidential elections will be free and fair. The polls will be held under the watchful eyes of some 300 thousand Russian and 600 foreign observers. Reacting to the mass rallies that challenged the official results of the Duma elections of December 4th, Prime Minister Putin said that electoral fairness is essential for the legitimacy of the elected government. The presidential contest is pitching him against the Communist Gennady Ziuganov, the Liberal Democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky, leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov and billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov. 0(TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 02####Presidential election: just one day to go########More than 90,000 people have already cast their ballots in early voting ahead of the March 4 presidential polls. People in remote and hard-to-reach areas, border guards, sailors, reindeer breeders and other people, who, for objective reasons, would be unable to come to polling stations on the official voting day, were given a chance to exercise their electoral rights.More than 90,000 people have already cast their ballots in early voting ahead of the March 4 presidential polls. People in remote and hard-to-reach areas, border guards, sailors, reindeer breeders and other people, who, for objective reasons, would be unable to come to polling stations on the official voting day, were given a chance to exercise their electoral rights. Meanwhile, campaigning has reached its apogee with candidates trying to use whatever time there is left before the March 4 vote to the fullest, meeting people and challenging each other at TV debates, in a desperate effort to sway voters over to their side. Eccentric Liberal Democratic Party candidate Vladimir Zhirinovsky kicked up a row with pop star Alla Pugachyova, a supporter and campaign proxy of billionaire self-nominee Mikhail Prokhorov, during a live TV debate with the oligarch. Zhirinovsky vowed to create secret police and rid the country of the so-called “fifth column” if he became president. Prokhorov unveiled plans to form a completely new party based on “non-political” principles, sort of a “civil superstructure” above the existing political parties.  Communist candidate Gennady Zyuganov and A Just Russia party candidate Sergei Mironov agreed during their live TV debate this week that in fact, their election manifestos and visions of Russia’s future – socialist and social-democratic had a lot in common. Neither of them has ruled out the emergence of a center-left coalition. Incumbent Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin took a short-term leave to meet representatives of the All-Russia Popular Front, political analysts and journalists.  Putin warned his supporters of possible provocations plotted with foreign assistance, which he fears might be committed during both pro-Kremlin and opposition rallies. He appealed to the public's common sense and cautioned them to resist those who incite violence. The voting process will be controlled by representatives of both the candidates and the Voters League. The League is a non-partisan association founded after the December 4 parliamentary elections. Both the voting and vote-counting can be watched online thanks to the 200,000 web cameras installed at polling stations across the country to ensure maximum transparency. The idea had been put forward by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. All the ballots will be counted in front of the cameras. Once a vote-counting protocol signed by a district electoral commission in the presence of the observers representing all the candidates goes online, no recount will be necessary. The procedure will allay any suspicions of vote rigging. The March 4 election will thus be the most transparent ever in Russian history. Despite this, long before the vote, some opposition forces declared the upcoming polls 'illegal' and their outcome 'rigged.' But they will certainly be in the minority. "Political analyst Pavel Danilin says that there will always be opposition supporters who will claim fraud even where there is none at all, only because they want this to happen." Andrei Smirnov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 02####Putin urges massive turnout########Prime Minister Putin has urged the voters to turn out for Sunday’s presidential elections in order to be able to shape Russia’s development in the coming 6 years.Prime Minister Putin has urged the voters to turn out for Sunday’s presidential elections in order to be able to shape Russia’s development in the coming 6 years. Appearing on national TV Friday, he recalled instances in which massive voter turnouts helped the country crush terrorism, preserve its territorial integrity and solve difficult social and economic problems.     He also envisaged possible problems in the future, and said he would turn to the public for help in resolving them peacefully, without upheavals or revolutions.     He said that if elected, he would do everything in his power to ensure social justice and equality of all citizens before the law.      The presidential contest is pitching him against the Communist Gennady Ziuganov, the Liberal Democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky, leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov and billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov. 0(TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 03####Over 300 thousands observers to monitor elections in Russia########Over 300 thousands observers across the country, as well as over 600 international experts will be monitoring the presidential elections in Russia on March 4th.Over 300 thousands observers across the country, as well as over 600 international experts will be monitoring the presidential elections in Russia on March 4th. The government and society are not only anticipating traditional reports of violations – the slogan of the present campaign was the fight for "fair elections" – something that was wholeheartedly supported by all participants of the presidential race. According to Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, this is especially important so that the elected government "feel legitimate.” At Putin’s initiative, almost all polling stations have been fitted with transparent ballot boxes, and Web cameras. The presidential campaign began against the backdrop of opposition protests following the December elections to the State Duma, demanding the resignation of the CEC chairman. 5 candidates are vying for the presidency. (TASS) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 03####"Day of Silence" in pre-election Russia########A "Day of Silence” has begun in Russia, when all campaigning and political advertising draws to a halt at 00.00 local time on the eve of presidential elections of March 4.Preliminary returns are due to be made public in the early morning of March 5th. Earlier positioned campaign material can remain in place, on condition it’s no closer than 50 meters to polling stations. Voters are given a no-campaigning day before the election to make their final decision who to vote for in a relaxed atmosphere without any undue pressure. There are 5 candidates contesting the top office, which for the first time is elected for a 6-year term. The Russian presidential campaign was launched November 26, 2011. The CEC is expected to make public the final voting results no later than March 14th, while on March 17th they must be officially published. The elected president will take office on May 7. RIAN, TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 03####Russia: Election webcams undergo final tests########The video streaming system which will be used at polling stations during Russia's upcoming presidential election is currently undergoing final tests in Moscow. The Web-based image transmission system has been fitted in over 91,000 polling stations throughout Russia.The video streaming system which will be used at polling stations during Russia's upcoming presidential election is currently undergoing final tests in Moscow. The Web-based image transmission system has been fitted in over 91,000 polling stations throughout Russia. Up to 60,000 people can use one Web camera to monitor the developments at their chosen polling station on the day of the presidential election. 25 million users, or every sixth Russian citizen, can simultaneously hook into the system via the webvybory2012.ru website. Foreign observers have already spoken highly of the newly-fitted system. 'We were impressed with the technical knowhow, and we do hope that the webcams will do a good job, an Italian Deputy of the European Parliament, Elisabeth Gardigno, said. RIAN, TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 03####CEC: Russia's election campaign conducted without major violations########The presidential election campaign in Russia, which ended in the so-called ‘day of silence’ today, was conducted without major violations, according to the chief of the Central Elections Commission, Vladimir Churov. The complaints which were lodged with the Commission were mainly claims that some presidential hopefuls had been granted more airtime than others, he said.The presidential election campaign in Russia, which ended in the so-called ‘day of silence’ today, was conducted without major violations, according to the chief of the Central Elections Commission, Vladimir Churov. The complaints which were lodged with the Commission were mainly claims that some presidential hopefuls had been granted more airtime than others, he said. There were also allegations, which are now being looked into, that a foreign-funded public organization authorized its officials to buy absentee ballots to vote in two Siberian regions. 685 international observers are due to monitor Sunday’s election. The five presidential hopefuls are Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Chairman of the Communist Party Gennady Zyuganov, leader of A Just Russia party Sergei Mironov, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. This time, Russian President is being elected for six years. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 03####Observer praises Russia’s steps to ensure fair elections########American electoral monitor Kline Preston has praised the measures Russia has taken to ensure fairness in Sunday’s presidential elections. Speaking at a Moscow news conference Saturday, he mentioned the transparent ballot boxes, the web cameras installed at each polling station and the comfortable conditions created for the monitors and returning officers.American electoral monitor Kline Preston has praised the measures Russia has taken to ensure fairness in Sunday’s presidential elections. Speaking at a Moscow news conference Saturday, he mentioned the transparent ballot boxes, the web cameras installed at each polling station and the comfortable conditions created for the monitors and returning officers. He said the organization of the forthcoming presidential elections has been much better than that of the latest elections to the Lower House of Parliament. (TASS) Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 03####Russia’s Election Commission: trust official data only########The head of Russia’s Central Election Commission Vladimir Churov has urged the media to refer to official voting data only. “God knows what results can come up with some untrustworthy analysts” he joked during the opening of the 2012 Election Information Center in Moscow.The head of Russia’s Central Election Commission Vladimir Churov has urged the media to refer to official voting data only. “God knows what results can come up with some untrustworthy analysts” he joked during the opening of the 2012 Election Information Center in Moscow. The center will be receiving turnout and voting results on March 4. At 9 p.m. Moscow time (8 p.m. in Russia’s westernmost city of Kaliningrad) the election will be over and the Center will begin operation. Its screens will display photos of all five candidates, their results and the number of processed ballots. The presidential candidates are: Vladimir Zhirinovsky from the Liberal-Democratic party, Gennady Zyuganov from the Communists, Sergey Mironov leading A Just Russia, independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. TASS  Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 03####Foreign observes praise preparations for Russia’s election########Foreign observers have highly assessed preparations and technology of the March 4 presidential election in Russia. Observer coordinator from the CIS Interparliamentary Assembly, Vladimir Popov of Belarus, stated that his group was impressed by CCTV and electronic ballot processing systems installed at Russian voting polls. The official said that he would recommend Russia’s experience to other countries.Foreign observers have highly assessed preparations and technology of the March 4 presidential election in Russia. Observer coordinator from the CIS Interparliamentary Assembly, Vladimir Popov of Belarus, stated that his group was impressed by CCTV and electronic ballot processing systems installed at Russian voting polls. The official said that he would recommend Russia’s experience to other countries. Web-cameras were proposed by PM Vladimir Putin to avoid election falsifications. They will be installed at all polls except those with restricted access and mobile ones. The presidential candidates are: Vladimir Zhirinovsky from the Liberal-Democratic party, Gennady Zyuganov from the Communists, Sergey Mironov leading A Just Russia, independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russian presidential elections exit-poll data released########Russia’s presidential election is over. At 9 p.m. Moscow time voting stations in Russia’s westernmost Kaliningrad region closed. According to exit polls, Vladimir Putin leads the election with 58,3%.Other candidates have scored: Gennady Zyuganov (the Communist Party) 17,7% Independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov 9,2% Vladimir Zhirinovsky (the Liberal-Democratic Party) 8,5% Sergey Mironov (A Just Russia) 4,8%. A poll of voters was conducted in 1000 stations in 63 Russian regions. 31,7% of the respondents refused to answer. The total of 159, 161 voters have been interviewed. Over 109mln eligible Russians are electing President out of five candidates.  A total of 96,000 stations are located across Russia. Some of them are equipped with computer ballot count systems.  Voters who want to report violations may call special hot lines which have been arranged to avoid falsifications. The 2012 campaign differs from the previous ones.  The voting procedure has been amended. Under the relevant presidential decree, all voting stations across the country (over 91,000) are equipped with CCTV (two cameras per each station) to monitor the voting and processing procedures. This is the first time, Russia’s President is being elected for a term of six years (the previous term was 4 years). Russia’s elections attract international attention. They were monitored by about 700 foreign observers from the OSCE (Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe), PACE (Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly), the SCO (Shanghai Cooperation Organization) and other institutions. They are entitled to the same powers as domestic observers, in contrast to some other countries.  Over 65,000 volunteers, i.e. young lawyers from the For Fair Elections organizations, and the League of Voters, Citizen Observer, Rosvybory, Civil Control associations  are also monitoring the process. All data about the turnout and preliminary results are received in real time by the Central Election Commission Datacenter in Moscow. The votes are to be counted no later than March 14 and announced by March 17. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####At 09.00 Moscow time, Vladimir Putin has received 63,82% of the votes########Russia’s presidential election is over. Russia’s presidential election is over.Ballots are currently being processed.At 09.00 Moscow time, Vladimir Putin has received 63,82% of the votes Gennady Zyuganov 17,18% Vladimir Zhirinovsky 6,23% Sergey Mironov 3,84% Independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov 7,77%. None of the over 700 foreign observers of the elections has reported irregularities in the voting process. Official results will be announced no later than March 14. Under Russia’s elections legislation, the winner has to score a qualified majority (50% plus any number of votes). If no one gets a simple majority, the second round is held featuring candidates who came second and third in the first round. The elections are monitored by numerous foreign observers from the OSCE (Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe), PACE (Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly), the SCO  (Shanghai Cooperation Organization) and other institutions. They are entitled to the same powers as domestic observers. P.S. The 2012 campaign differs from the previous ones.  This is the first time, that Russia’s President is being elected for a term of six years (the previous term was 4 years). The voting procedure has also been amended. Under the relevant presidential decree, all voting stations across the country (over 91,000) are equipped with CCTV (two cameras per each station) to monitor the voting and processing procedures. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russia is seeing presidential elections########30,1% of Russian people are on the electoral roll at 13.00 Moscow time. The voting will last till 9 p.m. Moscow time (8  p.m. in Russia’s westernmost Kaliningrad region).ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT Russia’s State Election Commission will announce preliminary results by 9 p.m. March 4 after processing ballots from the Far East and Siberian regions with the State Automated System Vybory. FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. The President of the Russian Federation is elected by eligible Russian citizens through direct and secret ballot vote. This is the first time, Russia’s President is being elected for a term of six years (the previous term was 4 years). Over 100 mln eligible Russians are electing President out of five candidates. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russia elects president. The voting process and election results########The presidential elections are getting under way in Russia. A total of 96,000 polling stations will be open from 8am to 8 pm local time. Polling stations have been organized at Russian embassies and consulates abroad, and mobile stations have opened at airports and railroad terminals. Voting will take place even in outer space. For the first time, Russia is electing a president for a six-year term.ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT Five candidates are running for Russian presidency: Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who represents United Russia Party, Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov, the leader of the Liberal Democrats Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the founder of A Just Russia Party Sergei Mironov and independent billionaire candidate Mikhail Prokhorov. Residents of the Russian Far East, the Kamchatka and Chukchi Peninsulas, and the Magadan Region are the first to cast their ballots. Because of the time difference, the voting process in these regions will be in full swing when it’s the middle of the night in Moscow. According to the Central Election Commission, more than 109 million Russian people over 18 are eligible to vote and can exercise this right on March 4th 2012. About 1.5 million eligible voters who are currently abroad will be able to vote at  Russian embassies and consulates in 146 countries. The largest number of Russians abroad who have the right to vote – nearly half a million - are in Germany. Moldova comes second with nearly 180, 000, and Israel is third with 160,000. The Central Election Commission has held early voting in 58 countries. These countries include Islamic states where Sunday is a working day. FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. From February 17th until March 3rd early voting takes place in 36 remote areas of Russia covering nearly the whole of the Far North and parts of the Far East, Siberia and the Urals. Those who are working at polar stations, lighthouses and vessels at sea cast their ballots well before the voting day as well. Sailors of the Pacific Fleet ships which are patrolling the waters in the Gulf of Aden off Somalia and the Russian peacekeepers who are on duty in South Sudan’s capital Juba have cast their ballots. The results of early voting will not be revealed until the late hours of March 4th when all Russians have taken their votes. As usual, Russia’s elections are evoking huge interest worldwide. More than 700 foreign observers from the CIS, OSCE, PACE, the Council of Europe, the Shanghai Forum and the Nordic Council, have arrived in Russia to monitor the elections. Inside Russia, the voting process is being followed by representatives of social groups which sprang up at the request of the public in the wake of parliamentary elections in December which triggered a lot of controversy within Russian society. More than 60,000 volunteers, including young lawyers who founded the observer group For Fair Elections, are overseeing the polls in partnership with other associations, such as the League of Voters, Citizen Observer, Rosvybory and Citizen Control. Thousands of polling stations have been fitted out with electronic ballot processors in order to minimize the risk of vote rigging. The election authorities have also provided polling stations with about 60,000 transparent ballot boxes. Some 90,000 polling stations have been equipped with web cameras. Anyone willing can follow the voting process on-line at webvybory2012.ru . In addition, the Central Election Commission has launched a free hotline so that people can report irregularities by phone. All data concerning the voting process, the voter turnout and the preliminary outcome enter the Information Center of the Central Election Commission in Moscow in real time. The first results are expected to be published at 21.00 Moscow time, after the closure of polling stations in Russia’s westernmost Kaliningrad Region. The Central Election Commission is to count the votes by March 14th and release an official report about the outcome of the voting by March 17th. Svetlana Kalmykova Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russians start casting ballots in presidential elections########At midnight Moscow Time, or 8 a.m. Russian Far Eastern Time, Russian voters registered in the country’s Far East started casting ballots in the presidential elections.At midnight Moscow Time, or 8 a.m. Russian Far Eastern Time, Russian voters registered in the country’s Far East started casting ballots in the presidential elections. There are five candidates in the running – Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist Gennady Ziuganov, the Liberal Democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky, leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov and billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov. Each polling station is equipped with web cameras, which enable anyone who cares to watch the voting online at www.webvybory2012.ru. Some 700 international observers are at work, representing the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Nordic Council. The voting will come to an end at 9 p.m. Moscow Time, or 5 p.m. GMT, with the closure of the polling stations in Russia’s westernmost region of Kaliningrad. First counts will be available immediately. The final official announcement of the results is expected between March 14th and 17th . For the first time, the Russians are electing a President for 6 years. VOR Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Voting goes on-screen########A wall of 20 TV screens was unveiled on Saturday at the Central Electoral Commission headquarters in Moscow to offer live feeds from six Russian regions randomly selected by the operator. The TV screens are already showing voters lining up at polling stations in Chukotka and Magadan.A wall of 20 TV screens was unveiled on Saturday at the Central Electoral Commission headquarters in Moscow to offer live feeds from six Russian regions randomly selected by the operator. The TV screens are already showing voters lining up at polling stations in Chukotka and Magadan. Johan Beckman, a political analyst from Finland, hailed the idea of fitting out polling places with web cameras as a major breakthrough in the history of democratic elections. (RIAN, TASS) Russia, website, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russians in orbit to vote for president########Russian cosmonauts on board the International Space Station (ISS) will vote via a dedicated communication channel linking the ISS with Mission Control. In a video linkup with a specially assigned confidant, slated for Sunday afternoon, Anton Shkaplerov, Anatoly Ivanishin and Oleg Kononenko will tell him the names of the residential candidates they vote for. (RIAN)Russian cosmonauts on board the International Space Station (ISS) will vote via a dedicated communication channel linking the ISS with Mission Control. In a video linkup with a specially assigned confidant, slated for Sunday afternoon, Anton Shkaplerov, Anatoly Ivanishin and Oleg Kononenko will tell him the names of the residential candidates they vote for. (RIAN) Russia, cosmonauts, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russia is electing new president########Russia is electing a new president. For the first time in the country’s post-Soviet history the head of state is being elected for a six-year term. Five candidates are standing for the post.Russia is electing a new president. For the first time in the country’s post-Soviet history the head of state is being elected for a six-year term. Five candidates are standing for the post. They are the incumbent Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the heads of the three parliamentary opposition parties Gennady Zyuganov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky and Sergei Mironov and one self-nominee, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. Their names on the ballot sheets are arranged in alphabetical order. Despite tough competition, the election race had on the whole been calm. With 200,000 web cameras installed at polling stations, this will be Russia’s most transparent election ever. About 700,000 international observers are overseeing the voting process on the sites and more than a million registered web users will watch them online. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Most vote rigging reports fake - Public Chamber official########“Most reports on violations during today’s presidential elections are fake”, a member of the Public Chamber, Maksim Mishchenko, said, adding that vote rigging is being reported mainly by the League of Voters and observers supporting the Yabloko party. All reports are immediately checked using webcams installed at all polling stations across Russia.“Most reports on violations during today’s presidential elections are fake”, a member of the Public Chamber, Maksim Mishchenko, said, adding that vote rigging is being reported mainly by the League of Voters and observers supporting the Yabloko party. All reports are immediately checked using webcams installed at all polling stations across Russia. Violations were reported in Russia’s Far East, in the republic of Khakasiya, in Altay and Kemerovo districts. “Some observers say the turnout is low, while others claim that it is very high”, Mishchenko said. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russian voting transparency praised########Foreign observers have praised the openness and transparency of Russia’s presidential election.  ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT Elisabetta Gardini, an observer from the European Parliament, has told reporters that she visited two polling stations on Sunday and was impressed by what she saw.Foreign observers have praised the openness and transparency of Russia’s presidential election.  ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT Elisabetta Gardini, an observer from the European Parliament, has told reporters that she visited two polling stations on Sunday and was impressed by what she saw.  She said she found the webcam experiment very interesting and that she was eager to see its results.  An independent UK observer, Alan Richardson, echoed that the web cameras were a good way to rule out fraud and that Britain should also try it.  Another European observer, Viktor Uspasskikh, said he had visited 11 polling stations he himself had chosen and saw nothing wrong. FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. For the first time in the country’s post-Soviet history the head of state is being elected for a six-year term. Five candidates are standing for the post. These are the incumbent Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the heads of the three parliamentary opposition parties Gennady Zyuganov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky and Sergei Mironov and one self-nominee, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. Their names on the ballot sheets are arranged in alphabetical order. Despite tough competition, the election race had on the whole been calm. With 200,000 web cameras installed at polling stations, this will be Russia’s most transparent election ever. About 700,000 international observers are overseeing the voting process on the sites and more than a million registered web users will watch them online. Voting in presidential elections in Russia`s Far East is over, with counting already under way in Kamchatka, Chukotka, Kolyma, Magadan district, in the South Kurils, in Sakhalin, in Khabarovsk, and in the Jewish Autonomous oblast. Local election commissions say the turnout in the Russian east was about 57%. Meanwhile, early results will be unveiled only after all polling stations are closed at 9 p.m. Moscow time.  As of 10 p.m. Moscow time, turnout was reported at more than 15%. Some 700 international observers are monitoring the elections. For the first time, the president will be elected for 6 years. There are five candidates running for the presidency: Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal-Democratic Party, Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia, and independent candidate, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. Observers hail transparency of Russia's presidential vote  Foreign observers have praised the openness and transparency of Russia’s presidential election.  Elisabetta Gardini, an observer from the European Parliament, has told reporters that she visited two polling stations on Sunday and was impressed by what she saw.  She said she found the webcam experiment very interesting and that she was keen to see its results.  An independent UK observer, Alan Richardson, echoed that the web cameras were a good way to rule out fraud and that Britain should also try it.  Another European observer, Viktor Uspasskikh, said he had visited 11 polling stations he himself had chosen and saw nothing wrong. Rostelecom copes with voting transmission The web channels transmitting Sunday’s voting live from polling stations in Russia are successfully coping with the flood of web users, Alexander Provotorov, Chief Executive Officer of Rostelecom, the company in charge of the online transmission, has told reporters. More than 1.35 million users registered at the webvybory2012.ru portal, he said. Rostelecom’s call-center will work round-the-clock, receiving calls from users and district electoral commissions about the quality of transmission. Rostelecom engineering staff provides on-site equipment control and maintenance at each polling station. If online transmission is interrupted for a while, video recording continues nonstop. About 200,000 web cameras were installed at 91,000 polling stations across the country. PM Putin votes at the election  Russian PM and his wife Ludmilla walked into voting station No. 2079 in the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow today to cast their ballots in the presidential election.  Media flocked to the polling station to cover this story.  Putin told the journalists he hoped for a high turnout rate. Prokhorov votes in Krasnoyarsk The only independent Russian presidential candidate, Mikhail Prokhorov, was among the first to take to the polling station in the Krasnoyarsk region, Prokhorov’s representative Sergei Kim told Interfax-Sibir. According to Sergei Kim, Prokhorov is now heading to Moscow. Zhirinovsky casts his vote Russian presidential contender Vladimir Zhirinovsky of Russia’s Liberal Democratic Party took to the polling station at secondary school No.1438 in Moscow Ochakovo-Matveyevskoye district today to cast his ballot at the presidential election. Voters’ good mood is the best signal of the right choice, Vladimir Zhirinovsky said after casting his vote before the journalists. The Liberal-Democratic chief also promised to visit some election commissions during the vote processing later this day. Mironov takes to voting station Russian presidential candidate Sergei Mironov of the Fair Russia Party has cast his ballot, Ria-Novosti report. Mironov appeared at voting station No. 1234 in Maly Kislovsky Lane in Moscow, wher he talked to the observers. The presidential hopeful noted that CCTV cameras will monitor all Russian polling stations during the vote counting to rule out any election fraud. Zyuganov Votes for ‘Prosperous’ Russia Presidential candidate and Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov said on Sunday he was voting for an “educated and prosperous” Russia as he cast his ballot in the presidential elections. “I personally voted for a Russia that is educated, healthy, intelligent and prosperous. I want Russian citizens to feel they are people and not serfs. I am confident that a good future lies ahead of Russia,” Zyuganov said after he voted at a polling station in Moscow. Zyuganov said, however, that the Communists had started to register some election violations already. He also said a higher turnout at the elections would ensure stricter control over the results, which would increase the probability of a second round vote. Last December’s parliamentary elections in Russia triggered mass protests over alleged vote fraud in favor of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's ruling United Russia party. The Communist leader said street protests would be held on Monday after the presidential elections. “There will be a lot of street actions and requests to hold rallies have already been submitted, but I am calling on everyone to show restraint and comply with the law,” he said. President Medvedev casts ballot Acting Russian President Dmitry Medvedev cast his ballot at the country’s presidential election today. At around noon, Dmitry Medvedev arrived at a polling station in western Moscow together with his wife Svetlana, filled in the ballot and cast it into the electronic ballot box. Before their arrival, the voting station was inspected by OSCE and SCO monitors. Ten candidate appointed observers were also present at the station. No special measures were taken as to barring the polling station for the general public. No unrest in Russia amid presidential election There have been no reports of unrest during the ongoing presidential election in Russia today, Russian foreign ministry said. 380 policepeople, aided by 30 thousand volunteers, are ensuring security in the country. Police have been deployed at every polling station. Before the election, the Moscow police carried out the so-called “preventive measures,” bolstering control over the capital’s vital facilities, including its underground. Additional police forces will be drawn up from Russia’s central regions to tighten security ahead of the anticipated mass demonstrations in Moscow on March 5. Overseas voters cast ballots in Russian polls Russians citizens abroad are turning out in large numbers at overseas polling stations as voting continues in Sunday’s presidential election. It began in New Zealand, Australia and Japan and will end in San Francisco on the U.S. Pacific coast. More than 380 polling stations were organized in 147 countries, including in the Norwegian town of Stavanger where 84 Russians work and also in Taipei on Taiwan. Many Russians overseas have been able to cast their ballots ahead of March 4 thanks to the early voting system. The early voting turnout was the highest in Bulgaria, Uzbekistan, Latvia and Kyrgyzstan. For the first time, early voting reached out to Russian geologists in Angola, Russian tourists in the Dominican Republic and Russian personnel in South Sudan. Public Chamber observers praise March 4 vote technology Some 30 reports on violations during today`s presidential elections in Russia were submitted to the Public Chamber and are currently being checked, a member of the chamber Georgy Fedotov told Interfax. He said that the reports did not contain any major violations. Some election propaganda leaflets were found at a polling station in Chechnya and were immediately removed. The Public Chamber observers agree that comparing with the parliamentary vote in December, today`s elections are better organized, with webcams installed at all polling stations, allowing registered users watch the election online. Russian presidential election makes it into Twitter trends The Russian presidential election has made it into the Twitter Trends, a collection of the most hotly discussed topics on Twitter microblogs, statistics say. The #elections2012 tag appeared in the Trends at around 11a.m. Moscow time (GMT+3). Only words mentioned more than ten to twenty thousand times on Twitter are featured in the Trends collection. Most vote rigging reports are fake - Public Chamber official “Most reports on violations during today’s presidential elections are fake”, a member of the Public Chamber, Maksim Mishchenko, said, adding that vote rigging is being reported mainly by the League of Voters and observers supporting Yabloko party. All reports are immediately checked using webcams installed at all polling stations across Russia. Violations were reported in Russia’s Far East, in the republic of Khakasiya, in Altay and Kemerovo districts. “Some observers say the turnout is low, while others claim that it is very high”, Mishchenko said. Voting goes on-screen A wall of 20 TV screens was unveiled on Saturday at the Central Electoral Commission headquarters in Moscow to offer live feeds from six Russian regions randomly selected by the operator. The TV screens are already showing voters lining up at polling stations in Chukotka and Magadan. Johan Beckman, a political analyst from Finland, hailed the idea of fitting out polling places with web cameras as a major breakthrough in the history of democratic elections. (RIAN, TASS, Interfax) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Observers praise March 4 voting technology########Some 30 reports on violations during today`s presidential elections in Russia have been submitted to the Public Chamber and are currently being reviewed, a member of the chamber Georgy Fedotov told Interfax. He said that the reports did not contain any major violations. Some election propaganda leaflets were found at a polling station in Chechnya and were immediately removed.Some 30 reports on violations during today`s presidential elections in Russia have been submitted to the Public Chamber and are currently being reviewed, a member of the chamber Georgy Fedotov told Interfax. He said that the reports did not contain any major violations. Some election propaganda leaflets were found at a polling station in Chechnya and were immediately removed. The Public Chamber observers agree that compared to the parliamentary vote in December, today`s elections are better organized, with webcams installed at all polling stations, allowing registered users to watch elections online. (Interfax) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russian presidential election makes it into Twitter trends########The Russian presidential election has made it into Twitter Trends, a collection of the most hotly discussed topics on Twitter microblogs, statistics say. The #elections2012 tag appeared in the Trends at around 11a.m. Moscow time (GMT+3). Only words mentioned more than ten to twenty thousand times on Twitter are featured in the Trends collection. RIAN    The Russian presidential election has made it into Twitter Trends, a collection of the most hotly discussed topics on Twitter microblogs, statistics say. The #elections2012 tag appeared in the Trends at around 11a.m. Moscow time (GMT+3). Only words mentioned more than ten to twenty thousand times on Twitter are featured in the Trends collection. RIAN     Russia, Twitter, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Overseas voters cast ballots at Russian polls########Russians citizens abroad are turning out in large numbers at overseas polling stations as voting continues in Sunday’s presidential election. It began in New Zealand, Australia and Japan and will end in San Francisco on the U.S. Pacific coast.Russians citizens abroad are turning out in large numbers at overseas polling stations as voting continues in Sunday’s presidential election. It began in New Zealand, Australia and Japan and will end in San Francisco on the U.S. Pacific coast. More than 380 polling stations were organized in 147 countries, including in the Norwegian town of Stavanger where 84 Russians work and also in Taipei,Taiwan. Many Russians overseas have been able to cast their ballots ahead of March 4 thanks to the early voting system. The early voting turnout was the highest in Bulgaria, Uzbekistan, Latvia and Kyrgyzstan. For the first time, early voting reached out to Russian geologists in Angola, Russian tourists in the Dominican Republic and Russian personnel in South Sudan. (TASS) Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####President Medvedev casts ballot########Acting Russian President Dmitry Medvedev cast his ballot at the country’s presidential election today. At around noon, Dmitry Medvedev arrived at a polling station in western Moscow together with his wife Svetlana, filled in a ballot and cast it into the electronic ballot box. Before their arrival, the voting station was inspected by OSCE and SCO monitors.Acting Russian President Dmitry Medvedev cast his ballot at the country’s presidential election today. At around noon, Dmitry Medvedev arrived at a polling station in western Moscow together with his wife Svetlana, filled in a ballot and cast it into the electronic ballot box. Before their arrival, the voting station was inspected by OSCE and SCO monitors. Ten candidate appointed observers were also present at the station. No special measures were taken with regards to barring the polling station for general public. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Voting in Russia`s Far East over########  ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT   FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE.  ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT   FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Voting in presidential elections in Russia`s Far East is over, with counting already under way in Kamchatka, Chukotka, Kolyma, Magadan district, in the South Kurils, in Sakhalin, in Khabarovsk, and in the Jewish Autonomous oblast. Local election commissions say the turnout in the Russian east was about 57%. Meanwhile, early results will be unveiled only after all polling stations are closed at 9 p.m. Moscow time.  As of 10 p.m. Moscow time, the turnout was reported at more than 15%. Some 700 international observers are monitoring the elections. For the first time, the president will be elected for 6 years. There are five candidates running for presidency: Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal-Democratic Party, Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia, and independent candidate billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####No unrest in Russia amid presidential election########ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. There have been no reports of unrest during the ongoing presidential election in Russia today, Russian foreign ministry said. 380 police officers, aided by 30 thousand volunteers, are ensuring security in the country.ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. There have been no reports of unrest during the ongoing presidential election in Russia today, Russian foreign ministry said. 380 police officers, aided by 30 thousand volunteers, are ensuring security in the country. Police have been deployed at every polling station. Before the election, the Moscow police carried out the so-called “preventive measures,” bolstering control over the capital’s vital facilities, including its underground. Additional police forces will be drawn up from Russia’s central regions to tighten security ahead of the anticipated mass demonstrations in Moscow on March 5.   TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####PM Putin votes########  ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT   FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Russian PM and his wife Ludmilla walked into voting station No. 2079 at the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow today to cast their ballots in the presidential election.  ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT   FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Russian PM and his wife Ludmilla walked into voting station No. 2079 at the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow today to cast their ballots in the presidential election. Media flocked to the polling station to cover this story. Putin told the journalists he was hoping for a high turnout rate. RIAN Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Zyuganov Votes for ‘Prosperous’ Russia########ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Presidential candidate and Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov said on Sunday he was voting for an “educated and prosperous” Russia as he cast his ballot in the presidential elections.ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Presidential candidate and Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov said on Sunday he was voting for an “educated and prosperous” Russia as he cast his ballot in the presidential elections. “I personally voted for a Russia that is educated, healthy, intelligent and prosperous. I want Russian citizens to feel they are people and not serfs. I am confident that a good future lies ahead of Russia,” Zyuganov said after he voted at a polling station in Moscow. Zyuganov said, however, that the Communists had already started to register some election violations. He also said a higher turnout at the elections would ensure stricter control over the results, which would increase the probability of a second round vote. Last December’s parliamentary elections in Russia triggered mass protests over alleged vote fraud in favor of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's ruling United Russia party. The Communist leader said street protests would be held on Monday after the presidential elections. “There will be a lot of street actions and requests to hold rallies have already been submitted, but I am calling on everyone to show restraint and comply with the law,” he said. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Mironov takes to polling station########  ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT   FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Russian presidential candidate Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia Party has cast his ballot, Ria-Novosti report.  ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT   FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Russian presidential candidate Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia Party has cast his ballot, Ria-Novosti report. Mironov appeared at voting station No. 1234 in Maly Kislovsky Lane in Moscow, wher he talked to the observers. The presidential hopeful noted that CCTV cameras will monitor all Russian polling stations during the vote counting to rule out any election fraud. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Zhirinovsky casts his ballot########Russian presidential contender Vladimir Zhirinovsky of Russia’s Liberal Democratic Party took to the polling station at secondary school No.1438 in Moscow Ochakovo-Matveyevskoye district today to cast his ballot in the presidential election. Voters’ good mood is the best signal of the right choice, Vladimir Zhirinovsky said after casting his vote before the journalists.Russian presidential contender Vladimir Zhirinovsky of Russia’s Liberal Democratic Party took to the polling station at secondary school No.1438 in Moscow Ochakovo-Matveyevskoye district today to cast his ballot in the presidential election. Voters’ good mood is the best signal of the right choice, Vladimir Zhirinovsky said after casting his vote before the journalists. The Liberal-Democratic chief also promised to visit some election commissions during the vote processing later this day. RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russian elections online########Today Russians are electing their president, who will for the first time serve a 6-year term. The Central Election Commission (CEC) has already reported a record 47.6% turnout throughout Russia as of 15 p.m Moscow time.ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Voting in presidential elections in Russia`s Far East is over, with counting already under way. Local election commissions say the turnout in the Russian east has exceeded 70%. As of 6 p.m local time in Primorye, 57% of voters cast their ballots, which is 5% more than in the 2008 presidential elections. With webcams installed at all polling stations, all registered Internet users can watch the election online.  Reports show a traditionally high turnout in the Caucasus, with local election commission registering a 100% turnout in many villages of Ingushetiya, Kabardino-Balkariya and Dagestan in the very first hours of the voting. As of midday Moscow time, the turnout in Chechnya was about 53%. In Kabardino-Balkariya it was 34%, 3% more than in 2008.  In central Russia, many voters appear to be still on their way to the polling stations, with just a 12% turnout reported in Moscow at midday. Now that several hours have passed since the voting started, Saint Petersburg reports a 10% turnout, which is higher than in the parliamentary election in December.  In all, more than 110 million Russians, including 2 million residing abroad, have the right to vote in today’s elections, the CEC head Vladimir Churov said. "400 polling stations in more than 140 countries are open for Russian citizens wiling to cast their ballots. In Russia, more than 95,000 polling stations are open today, with 830,000 people hired as members of local election commissions. Half of them were appointed by registered political parties."  Webcams installed at all polling stations across Russia allow people watch the election process online, which is a real innovation for the country. Russia’sMinister of Communications and Mass Media Igor Shchegolev said there was just a single polling station in a remote village in Magadan district where online broadcast was unavailable.  Voters are welcome to cast their ballots since 8 a.m until 8 p.m local time. The voting will be over when the last polling station closes in the country’s most western Kaliningrad region at 9 p.m. Moscow time. Only after that early results and exit polls will be unveiled.  There are five candidates running for the presidency: Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal-Democratic Party, Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia, and independent candidate, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. They all have already voted.   Natalya Kovalenko Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Observers hail Russian voting transparency########Foreign observers have praised the openness and transparency of Russia’s presidential election. ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE.Foreign observers have praised the openness and transparency of Russia’s presidential election. ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Elisabetta Gardini, an observer from the European Parliament, has told reporters that she visited two polling stations on Sunday and was impressed by what she saw. She said she found the webcam experiment very interesting and that she was eager to see the results. An independent UK observer, Alan Richardson, echoed that the web cameras were a good way of ruling out fraud and that Britain should also try it. Another European observer, Viktor Uspasskikh, said he had visited 11 polling stations he himself had chosen and saw nothing wrong. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Prokhorov votes in Krasnoyarsk########The only independent Russian presidential candidate, Mikhail Prokhorov, was among the first to take to the polling station in the Krasnoyarsk region, Prokhorov’s representative Sergei Kim told Interfax-Sibir. According to Sergei Kim, Prokhorov is now heading to Moscow. IFThe only independent Russian presidential candidate, Mikhail Prokhorov, was among the first to take to the polling station in the Krasnoyarsk region, Prokhorov’s representative Sergei Kim told Interfax-Sibir. According to Sergei Kim, Prokhorov is now heading to Moscow. IF Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Rostelecom copes with voting transmission########The web channels transmitting Sunday’s voting live from polling stations in Russia are successfully coping with the flood of web users, Alexander Provotorov, Chief Executive Officer of Rostelecom, the company in charge of online transmission, has told reporters. More than 1.35 million users registered on the webvybory2012.ru portal, he said.The web channels transmitting Sunday’s voting live from polling stations in Russia are successfully coping with the flood of web users, Alexander Provotorov, Chief Executive Officer of Rostelecom, the company in charge of online transmission, has told reporters. More than 1.35 million users registered on the webvybory2012.ru portal, he said. Rostelecom’s call-center will work round-the-clock, receiving calls from users and district electoral commissions about the quality of transmission. Rostelecom engineering staff provides on-site equipment control and maintenance at each polling station. If online transmission is interrupted for a while, video recording continues nonstop. About 200,000 web cameras have been installed at 91,000 polling stations across the country. (TASS) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####116-year-old man votes in North Caucasus########A 116-year-old man came to a polling station in Ingushetia, a small republic in Russia’s North Caucasus, to cast his vote in the presidential elections, Muslim Albogachiyev, a member of the republican election commission, said on Sunday.A 116-year-old man came to a polling station in Ingushetia, a small republic in Russia’s North Caucasus, to cast his vote in the presidential elections, Muslim Albogachiyev, a member of the republican election commission, said on Sunday.  “Iliyev, Appas Lorsovich, born in 1896, came to polling station No. 6 in the village of Guli,” Albogachiyev said. The elderly and sick have the right to vote at home if they invite a member of the local election commission beforehand. However, retirees are usually the first ones to arrive at polling stations when they open at 8.00 a.m.  Albogachiyev said no incidents or breaches of the electoral legislation had been registered by the election commission of the republic. Russians are voting on Sunday to elect a president for the fifth time in the nation’s post-Soviet history. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin faces four opponents, none of which, analysts say, are likely to prove a serious threat to his bid. Putin was president from 2000 to 2008 but was forced to step down by the Constitution, which limits presidency to two "consecutive" terms. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Five die of heart attacks at Russian polling stations########Five people died of heart attacks at seperate polling stations during the presidential elections in Russia on Sunday, police said on Sunday.Five people died of heart attacks at seperate polling stations during the presidential elections in Russia on Sunday, police said on Sunday. One man, a 65-year old member of a local election commission in Zelenograd (northern Moscow), went for a cigarette break a few minutes before the polling station was supposed to open for voting, when he suffered a massive heart attack and died before the ambulance arrived. Another man, who was 53-years old and had been discharged from hospital two days ago, also died from a heart attack after getting his ballot paper at a polling station in Omsk, West Siberia. A 77-year old retiree died near a polling station in eastern Moscow. A 59-year old former school principal died in the village of Domna (Zabaikalsky Territory) when she arrived at a polling station. A similar tragedy occurred in Vologograd where a 72-year old woman died five meters away from the polling station. Russians are voting on Sunday to elect a president for the fifth time in the nation’s post-Soviet history. The president will serve a six-year term, and not four years as before. Five candidates, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, nationalist Liberal Democratic Party head Vladimir Zhirinovsky, A Just Russia Party leader Sergei Mironov and the only independent candidate, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, are running in the March 4 election. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Voter turnout in Lithuania exceeds 22%########As of 3 p.m. Moscow time, over 22% of eligible voters took to the polling stations in Lithuania today to cast their ballots in the Russian presidential election. This came in an announcement by Marina Biryukova, press-secretary of the Russian embassy in Lithuania. Some 13.5 thousand eligible Russian voters currently live in this ex-Soviet country.  (RIAN)As of 3 p.m. Moscow time, over 22% of eligible voters took to the polling stations in Lithuania today to cast their ballots in the Russian presidential election. This came in an announcement by Marina Biryukova, press-secretary of the Russian embassy in Lithuania. Some 13.5 thousand eligible Russian voters currently live in this ex-Soviet country.  0(RIAN) Russia, World, Latvia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russia’s elections win foreign praise########A number of international observers have praised Russia’s elections for fairness and openness which they say are yet to be emulated by countries in Europe. There have been statements to this effect from Euro-parliament member Johan Ewald Stadler, Italian politician Alessandro Mussolini and Slovakian delegate to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Sergei Chelemendik.A number of international observers have praised Russia’s elections for fairness and openness which they say are yet to be emulated by countries in Europe. There have been statements to this effect from Euro-parliament member Johan Ewald Stadler, Italian politician Alessandro Mussolini and Slovakian delegate to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Sergei Chelemendik. Mr Mussolini mentioned what he described as a top-notch video monitoring system deployed at the polling stations. Mr Chelemendik said Russia is a dynamic civilization evolving in the direction of modern democracy. Moscow reaches 34% voter turnout The voter turnout in the ongoing presidential election in Moscow reached 34.04%, as of 3 p.m. Moscow time. This came in an announcement by Aleksandr Bobychev, Deputy Chairman of the Russian Central Election Commission. Today, the Muscovites are electing a new head of state, as well as deputies to 125 municipal assemblies. On Sunday morning, over 3.38 thousand polling stations opened in Moscow. Chechen voters in festive mood Chief of Russia’s Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov has likened the ongoing presidential election to a “real holiday.” According to Ramzan Kadyrov, the “streets are crowded with people going to and from the polling stations.” By 3 p.m. Moscow time, the Chechen turnout exceeded 76%. Observers hail transparency of Russia's presidential vote Foreign observers have praised the openness and transparency of Russia’s presidential election.  ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT Elisabetta Gardini, an observer from the European Parliament, has told reporters that she visited two polling stations on Sunday and was impressed by what she saw.  She said she found the webcam experiment very interesting and that she was keen to see its results.  An independent UK observer, Alan Richardson, echoed that the web cameras were a good way to rule out fraud and that Britain should also try it.  Another European observer, Viktor Uspasskikh, said he had visited 11 polling stations he himself had chosen and saw nothing wrong. Russia has made great progress on the way to democracy, no violations have been observed at the presidential election, foreign observers declared at a press-conference at the International Information Centre in Moscow. They pointed out high voters’ turnout, the presence of representatives of all the candidates at polling stations and a lot of technical innovations which will guarantee no forgery. According to Polish observer Mateusz Piskorski, the idea of installing web cameras at polling stations will be considered in all European countries. The Russian Interior Ministry has received some 20 reports about minor breaches at the election. All of them are being checked. FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. For the first time in the country’s post-Soviet history the head of state is being elected for a six-year term. Five candidates are standing for the post. These are the incumbent Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the heads of the three parliamentary opposition parties Gennady Zyuganov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky and Sergei Mironov and one self-nominee, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. Their names on the ballot sheets are arranged in alphabetical order. Despite tough competition, the election race had on the whole been calm. With 200,000 web cameras installed at polling stations, this will be Russia’s most transparent election ever. About 700,000 international observers are overseeing the voting process on the sites and more than a million registered web users will watch them online. Voting in presidential elections in Russia`s Far East is over, with counting already under way in Kamchatka, Chukotka, Kolyma, Magadan district, in the South Kurils, in Sakhalin, in Khabarovsk, and in the Jewish Autonomous oblast. Local election commissions say the turnout in the Russian east was about 57%. Meanwhile, early results will be unveiled only after all polling stations are closed at 9 p.m. Moscow time.  As of 10 p.m. Moscow time, turnout was reported at more than 15%. Some 700 international observers are monitoring the elections. For the first time, the president will be elected for 6 years. There are five candidates running for the presidency: Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal-Democratic Party, Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia, and independent candidate, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. Observers hail transparency of Russia's presidential vote  Foreign observers have praised the openness and transparency of Russia’s presidential election.  Elisabetta Gardini, an observer from the European Parliament, has told reporters that she visited two polling stations on Sunday and was impressed by what she saw.  She said she found the webcam experiment very interesting and that she was keen to see its results.  An independent UK observer, Alan Richardson, echoed that the web cameras were a good way to rule out fraud and that Britain should also try it.  Another European observer, Viktor Uspasskikh, said he had visited 11 polling stations he himself had chosen and saw nothing wrong. Rostelecom copes with voting transmission The web channels transmitting Sunday’s voting live from polling stations in Russia are successfully coping with the flood of web users, Alexander Provotorov, Chief Executive Officer of Rostelecom, the company in charge of the online transmission, has told reporters. More than 1.35 million users registered at the webvybory2012.ru portal, he said. Rostelecom’s call-center will work round-the-clock, receiving calls from users and district electoral commissions about the quality of transmission. Rostelecom engineering staff provides on-site equipment control and maintenance at each polling station. If online transmission is interrupted for a while, video recording continues nonstop. About 200,000 web cameras were installed at 91,000 polling stations across the country. PM Putin votes at the election  Russian PM and his wife Ludmilla walked into voting station No. 2079 in the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow today to cast their ballots in the presidential election.  Media flocked to the polling station to cover this story.  Putin told the journalists he hoped for a high turnout rate. Prokhorov votes in Krasnoyarsk The only independent Russian presidential candidate, Mikhail Prokhorov, was among the first to take to the polling station in the Krasnoyarsk region, Prokhorov’s representative Sergei Kim told Interfax-Sibir. According to Sergei Kim, Prokhorov is now heading to Moscow. Zhirinovsky casts his vote Russian presidential contender Vladimir Zhirinovsky of Russia’s Liberal Democratic Party took to the polling station at secondary school No.1438 in Moscow Ochakovo-Matveyevskoye district today to cast his ballot at the presidential election. Voters’ good mood is the best signal of the right choice, Vladimir Zhirinovsky said after casting his vote before the journalists. The Liberal-Democratic chief also promised to visit some election commissions during the vote processing later this day. Mironov takes to voting station Russian presidential candidate Sergei Mironov of the Fair Russia Party has cast his ballot, Ria-Novosti report. Mironov appeared at voting station No. 1234 in Maly Kislovsky Lane in Moscow, wher he talked to the observers. The presidential hopeful noted that CCTV cameras will monitor all Russian polling stations during the vote counting to rule out any election fraud. Zyuganov Votes for ‘Prosperous’ Russia Presidential candidate and Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov said on Sunday he was voting for an “educated and prosperous” Russia as he cast his ballot in the presidential elections. “I personally voted for a Russia that is educated, healthy, intelligent and prosperous. I want Russian citizens to feel they are people and not serfs. I am confident that a good future lies ahead of Russia,” Zyuganov said after he voted at a polling station in Moscow. Zyuganov said, however, that the Communists had started to register some election violations already. He also said a higher turnout at the elections would ensure stricter control over the results, which would increase the probability of a second round vote. Last December’s parliamentary elections in Russia triggered mass protests over alleged vote fraud in favor of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's ruling United Russia party. The Communist leader said street protests would be held on Monday after the presidential elections. “There will be a lot of street actions and requests to hold rallies have already been submitted, but I am calling on everyone to show restraint and comply with the law,” he said. President Medvedev casts ballot Acting Russian President Dmitry Medvedev cast his ballot at the country’s presidential election today. At around noon, Dmitry Medvedev arrived at a polling station in western Moscow together with his wife Svetlana, filled in the ballot and cast it into the electronic ballot box. Before their arrival, the voting station was inspected by OSCE and SCO monitors. Ten candidate appointed observers were also present at the station. No special measures were taken as to barring the polling station for the general public. No unrest in Russia amid presidential election There have been no reports of unrest during the ongoing presidential election in Russia today, Russian foreign ministry said. 380 policepeople, aided by 30 thousand volunteers, are ensuring security in the country. Police have been deployed at every polling station. Before the election, the Moscow police carried out the so-called “preventive measures,” bolstering control over the capital’s vital facilities, including its underground. Additional police forces will be drawn up from Russia’s central regions to tighten security ahead of the anticipated mass demonstrations in Moscow on March 5. Overseas voters cast ballots in Russian polls Russians citizens abroad are turning out in large numbers at overseas polling stations as voting continues in Sunday’s presidential election. It began in New Zealand, Australia and Japan and will end in San Francisco on the U.S. Pacific coast. More than 380 polling stations were organized in 147 countries, including in the Norwegian town of Stavanger where 84 Russians work and also in Taipei on Taiwan. Many Russians overseas have been able to cast their ballots ahead of March 4 thanks to the early voting system. The early voting turnout was the highest in Bulgaria, Uzbekistan, Latvia and Kyrgyzstan. For the first time, early voting reached out to Russian geologists in Angola, Russian tourists in the Dominican Republic and Russian personnel in South Sudan. Public Chamber observers praise March 4 vote technology Some 30 reports on violations during today`s presidential elections in Russia were submitted to the Public Chamber and are currently being checked, a member of the chamber Georgy Fedotov told Interfax. He said that the reports did not contain any major violations. Some election propaganda leaflets were found at a polling station in Chechnya and were immediately removed. The Public Chamber observers agree that comparing with the parliamentary vote in December, today`s elections are better organized, with webcams installed at all polling stations, allowing registered users watch the election online. Russian presidential election makes it into Twitter trends The Russian presidential election has made it into the Twitter Trends, a collection of the most hotly discussed topics on Twitter microblogs, statistics say. The #elections2012 tag appeared in the Trends at around 11a.m. Moscow time (GMT+3). Only words mentioned more than ten to twenty thousand times on Twitter are featured in the Trends collection. Most vote rigging reports are fake - Public Chamber official “Most reports on violations during today’s presidential elections are fake”, a member of the Public Chamber, Maksim Mishchenko, said, adding that vote rigging is being reported mainly by the League of Voters and observers supporting Yabloko party. All reports are immediately checked using webcams installed at all polling stations across Russia. Violations were reported in Russia’s Far East, in the republic of Khakasiya, in Altay and Kemerovo districts. “Some observers say the turnout is low, while others claim that it is very high”, Mishchenko said. Voting goes on-screen A wall of 20 TV screens was unveiled on Saturday at the Central Electoral Commission headquarters in Moscow to offer live feeds from six Russian regions randomly selected by the operator. The TV screens are already showing voters lining up at polling stations in Chukotka and Magadan. Johan Beckman, a political analyst from Finland, hailed the idea of fitting out polling places with web cameras as a major breakthrough in the history of democratic elections. (RIAN, TASS, Interfax) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Foreign observers see no violations in Russian election########Russia has made great progress on the way to democracy, no violations have been observed at polling stations, foreign observers declared at a press-conference at the International Information Centre in Moscow. They pointed out high voters’ turnout, the presence of representatives of all the candidates at polling stations and a lot of technical innovations which will guarantee no forgery.Russia has made great progress on the way to democracy, no violations have been observed at polling stations, foreign observers declared at a press-conference at the International Information Centre in Moscow. They pointed out high voters’ turnout, the presence of representatives of all the candidates at polling stations and a lot of technical innovations which will guarantee no forgery. According to Polish observer Mateusz Piskorski, the idea of installing web cameras at polling stations will be considered in all European countries. The Russian Interior Ministry has received some 20 reports about minor breaches during the election. All of them are being reviewed. TASS     Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Overseas Russian voters get more active########Some 82 thousand voters have come to the overseas polling stations to vote for a new Russian president, First Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Denisov told journalists. Overseas voters have been much more active this time than in December.Some 82 thousand voters have come to the overseas polling stations to vote for a new Russian president, First Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Denisov told journalists. Overseas voters have been much more active this time than in December. 82 thousand Russian citizens have already cast their ballots, compared to 21 thousand votes registered in the December election, Andrei Denisov said at the meeting of the Russian central election commission. Voter turnout in Lithuania exceeds 22%  As of 3 p.m. Moscow time, over 22% of eligible voters took to the polling stations in Lithuania today to cast their ballots in the Russian presidential election.  This came in an announcement by Marina Biryukova, press-secretary of the Russian embassy in Lithuania.  Some 13.5 thousand eligible Russian voters currently live in this ex-Soviet country.  (RIAN) Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####FEMEN activists risk imprisonment for stripping########FEMEN activists can be sentenced to 15 days in jail for disorderly conduct at a Moscow polling station, Moscow main interior foreign department announced on Sunday. Three young women stripped to the waist and started chanting anti-Putin slogans at the polling station in the Russian Academy of Sciences, where the premier cast his ballot.FEMEN activists can be sentenced to 15 days in jail for disorderly conduct at a Moscow polling station, Moscow main interior foreign department announced on Sunday. Three young women stripped to the waist and started chanting anti-Putin slogans at the polling station in the Russian Academy of Sciences, where the premier cast his ballot. The police have initiated an administrative offense case against the activists. 0RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, feminism, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Presidential candidates voting (VIDEO)########Russian PM Vladimir Putin and his wife Ludmila walked into voting station No. 2079 in the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow today to cast their ballots in the presidential election. Russian presidential candidate Sergei Mironov of the Fair Russia Party has cast his ballot at voting station No. 1234 in Maly Kislovsky Lane in Moscow.Russian PM Vladimir Putin and his wife Ludmila walked into voting station No. 2079 in the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow today to cast their ballots in the presidential election. Russian presidential candidate Sergei Mironov of the Fair Russia Party has cast his ballot at voting station No. 1234 in Maly Kislovsky Lane in Moscow.   Russian presidential contender Vladimir Zhirinovsky of Russia’s Liberal Democratic Party took to the polling station at secondary school No.1438 in Moscow Ochakovo-Matveyevskoye district today to cast his ballot at the presidential election. Presidential candidate and Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov said on Sunday he was voting for an “educated and prosperous” Russia as he cast his ballot in the presidential elections.   ONLINE UPDATES FOR THE VOTING PROCESS AND TURNOUT FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Chechen voters in festive mood########Chief of Russia’s Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov has likened the ongoing presidential election to a “real holiday.” According to Ramzan Kadyrov, the “streets are crowded with people going to and from the polling stations.” By 3 p.m. Moscow time, the Chechen turnout exceeded 76Chief of Russia’s Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov has likened the ongoing presidential election to a “real holiday.” According to Ramzan Kadyrov, the “streets are crowded with people going to and from the polling stations.” 0By 3 p.m. Moscow time, the Chechen turnout exceeded 76%. Russia, Chechnya, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Hackers break into McFaul’s Twitter blog########Hackers have broken into the Twitter microblog of US Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul and posted tweets slandering the Russian presidential election as illegitimate, Ambassador's spokesperson said. Messages about massive fraud, which had been allegedly registered at polling stations across Russia, questioning the legitimacy of the election appeared on Twitter earlier this Sunday.Hackers have broken into the Twitter microblog of US Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul and posted tweets slandering the Russian presidential election as illegitimate, Ambassador's spokesperson said. Messages about massive fraud, which had been allegedly registered at polling stations across Russia, questioning the legitimacy of the election appeared on Twitter earlier this Sunday. The press secretary denounced them as being false, stressing Mr. McFaul had never written them. He also said the tweet about legitimacy was posted in Russian, whereas the American ambassador usually posts his messages in English. The official US stance on this incident will be announced later, the spokesperson added. (RIAN) Russia, World, Michael McFaul, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####The progress of voting in Russia’s elections########Voter turnout in Russia’s presidential election accounted for 64% after one third of all ballots has been processed, the head of Russia’s Election Commission Vladimir Churov stated on Rossiya 24 TV Channel.The voter turnout was 58,3% of  the people on the electoral roll at 20 p.m. Moscow time. As of 15.00 Moscow Time, the overall voter turnout amounted to 47.6%. At the same time in the 2008 presidential elections, the figure was at 42.83%. In the Far East, the voting is over and counting is already in progress. The turnout there topped 70%, a marked improvement on the figures in the 2008 presidential and the 2011 Duma elections. By 18.00 local time, the turnout in Siberia’s Yamal-Nenetz region had reached 85%. The figures in March 2008 and December 2011 were 80% and 68%, respectively. By 15.00 local time, the turnout in Chechnya had reached almost 76%, and in Kabardino-Balkaria, more than 50%. In other parts of the Russian Caucasus, 100% turnouts have been reported – mostly in localities where the residents form closely-knit communities. By 15.00 Moscow Time, the turnouts in St Petersburg and Moscow had topped one third. By 15.00 local time, the turnout in Tatarstan on the Volga River had reached almost 60%. The figure in March 2008 was 56%. Voting at Russian offices abroad has been rolling across the globe from New Zealand to the Americas. The stations in NZ closed at 15.00 Moscow Time.  In California, the polls will open at 20.00 Moscow Time. The Foreign Ministry says the explosions in Brazzaville have failed to disrupt voting at the Russian Embassy in the Congolese capital. The Russian electorate numbers 110 million, including 2 million expats. We have more from head of the Central Electoral Commission Vladimir Churov: "In Russia, there are 95 thousand polling stations, and abroad, 400, scattered across 140 countries. The returning officers number 830 thousand. About one half of them represent registered political parties." Each of Russia’s polling stations – with the exception of one very remote station in the region of Magadan – is equipped with web cameras streaming live video to a dedicated web portal. According to Telecommunications Minister Igor Shchegolev, not a single of them is without an Internet watcher of the voting process. By 16.00 Moscow Time, watchful citizens had lodged about 1,200 complaints about electoral irregularities. Each complaint of this kind is immediately processed and sent back to its place of origin for being acted upon. So far, most of the complaints have proved to be unjustified. Executive member of the United Russia party Andrei Vorobyov praises fairness in the elections: "Web cameras and observers are at work. In Moscow, each station has 10 to 12 observers, compared with just 3 or 4 in 2008. Many of the observers represent powerful civil society groups. The organization of today’s voting has already won praise from the observer mission of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe." The voting will come to an end at 21.00 Moscow Time, with the closure of the polling stations in Russia’s westernmost Kaliningrad region. Almost immediately, the results of exit polls and preliminary counts will become available. There are five candidates in the running – Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist Gennady Ziuganov, the Liberal Democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky, leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov and billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov. All five cast their ballots before noon. Natalya Kovalenko Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Observer fined for carrying gun########Moscow magistrates have sentenced an electoral observer to paying a thousand-rouble fine for bringing a traumatic handgun and 12 cartridges for it to the polling station where he was to watch the voting process. The man was to act as an observer for his candidate, a would-be municipal councilor of the Western Degunino District.Moscow magistrates have sentenced an electoral observer to paying a thousand-rouble fine for bringing a traumatic handgun and 12 cartridges for it to the polling station where he was to watch the voting process. The man was to act as an observer for his candidate, a would-be municipal councilor of the Western Degunino District. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Election in Moscow over########Moscow polling stations closed 8 p.m. local time. Muscovites were electing Russia’s new president and municipal MPs. According to Moscow Election Commission, the turnout in the city reached 49,11% at 6 p.m. Moscow time. In 2008, the turnout was 66-67% while 61,4% of Muscovites came to vote for Duma MPs last December.Moscow polling stations closed 8 p.m. local time. Muscovites were electing Russia’s new president and municipal MPs. According to Moscow Election Commission, the turnout in the city reached 49,11% at 6 p.m. Moscow time. In 2008, the turnout was 66-67% while 61,4% of Muscovites came to vote for Duma MPs last December. Russia’s elections win foreign praise A number of international observers have praised Russia’s elections for fairness and openness which they say are yet to be emulated by countries in Europe. There have been statements to this effect from Euro-parliament member Johan Ewald Stadler, Italian politician Alessandro Mussolini and Slovakian delegate to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Sergei Chelemendik. Mr Mussolini mentioned what he described as a top-notch video monitoring system deployed at the polling stations. Mr Chelemendik said Russia is a dynamic civilization evolving in the direction of modern democracy.  FOR PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS EARLY RESULTS AS OF 9 P.M. MOSCOW TIME VISIT THE VOICE OF RUSSIA`S WEBSITE. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russia’s elections drawing to a close########21.00 Moscow Time, or 17.00 GMT, will mark the end of voting in Russia’s presidential elections. This will coincide with the closure of the polling stations in Russia’s westernmost Kaliningrad Region. The results of exit polls and preliminary counts will immediately become available.21.00 Moscow Time, or 17.00 GMT, will mark the end of voting in Russia’s presidential elections. This will coincide with the closure of the polling stations in Russia’s westernmost Kaliningrad Region. The results of exit polls and preliminary counts will immediately become available. Each polling station was equipped with web cameras streaming live video to a dedicated web portal. Up to 400 thousand Internet watchers have been simualtaneously logging on.         There are five candidates in the race – Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the Communist Gennady Ziuganov, the Liberal Democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky, leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov and billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov. Fore the first time, the Russians are electing a President for six years. Election in Moscow over Moscow polling stations closed 8 p.m. local time. Muscovites were electing Russia’s new president and municipal MPs. According to Moscow Election Commission, the turnout in the city reached 49,11% at 6 p.m. Moscow time. In 2008, the turnout was 66-67% while 61,4% of Muscovites came to vote for Duma MPs last December. Russia’s elections win foreign praise A number of international observers have praised Russia’s elections for fairness and openness which they say are yet to be emulated by countries in Europe. There have been statements to this effect from Euro-parliament member Johan Ewald Stadler, Italian politician Alessandro Mussolini and Slovakian delegate to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Sergei Chelemendik. Mr Mussolini mentioned what he described as a top-notch video monitoring system deployed at the polling stations. Mr Chelemendik said Russia is a dynamic civilization evolving in the direction of modern democracy.  (TASS, RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russia’s Election Commission to probe alleged Dagestan stuffing########Russia’s Central Election Commission will probe information and take measures about alleged ballot stuffing at a Dagestan polling station, a member of the Commission told reporters in Moscow. A source from Dagestan Election Commission forwarded a web-camera recording of ballot stuffing at the poll 1402 in the Tarum region.  The Central Commission is now checking the data.Russia’s Central Election Commission will probe information and take measures about alleged ballot stuffing at a Dagestan polling station, a member of the Commission told reporters in Moscow. A source from Dagestan Election Commission forwarded a web-camera recording of ballot stuffing at the poll 1402 in the Tarum region.  The Central Commission is now checking the data. (RIAN) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####European standards for Russian elections########The organization on the Russian voting polls is quite similar to the European standards, as well as the professionalism of the observers, says Alan Richardson - a British observer from the Labour Party. “I have seen a system very familiar with the elections in London. I was an elective representative of an area in London.The organization on the Russian voting polls is quite similar to the European standards, as well as the professionalism of the observers, says Alan Richardson - a British observer from the Labour Party. “I have seen a system very familiar with the elections in London. I was an elective representative of an area in London. I’ve organized the elections for my own party, which is the Labour Party. And the type of organization in Russian polling stations – I’ve seen four today – the people that are operating these polling stations seemed to me very similar to us. Your response, the Russian response, introducing web-cams, new technologies, new surveillance machines comes out of criticism in fraud. Our system is not criticized because of fraud; our system is criticized because we are not getting enough people to vote. It seems to me that it is sometimes a press attempt to undermine the validity of the votes that are casted. There is nothing to prevent people who go to vote, the one way or the other, for any of the parties, when they go to vote and think that it is important enough for them.” Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Dagestan stuffing confirmed########Vote results at Dagestan’s poll 1402 in the Tarum region will be cancelled due to  ballot stuffing, the Deputy-Head of Russia’s Central Election Commission Leonid Ivlev told reporters in Moscow. A decision in this respect will be shortly made by the Tarum Election Commission. Earlier, the Central Election Commission probed into the incident. INTERFAXVote results at Dagestan’s poll 1402 in the Tarum region will be cancelled due to  ballot stuffing, the Deputy-Head of Russia’s Central Election Commission Leonid Ivlev told reporters in Moscow. A decision in this respect will be shortly made by the Tarum Election Commission. Earlier, the Central Election Commission probed into the incident. INTERFAX Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Over 100,000 Putin supporters rally outside Kremlin: police########Over 100,000 people rallied outside the Kremlin walls in central Moscow Sunday to celebrate Vladimir Putin's expected presidential poll victory, Russian police said. "As of 9:50 pm (1750 GMT) more than 110,000 people have gathered at a rally in support of Vladimir Putin on Manezh Square and the neighbouring streets," the statement said. (AFP)Over 100,000 people rallied outside the Kremlin walls in central Moscow Sunday to celebrate Vladimir Putin's expected presidential poll victory, Russian police said. "As of 9:50 pm (1750 GMT) more than 110,000 people have gathered at a rally in support of Vladimir Putin on Manezh Square and the neighbouring streets," the statement said. (AFP) Russia, Vladimir Putin, rally, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Gorbachev doubts election results########Ex-Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has doubted that Russia’s presidential election results reflect real preferences of the public, Interfax reports. However, no falsifications can be claimed without documentary evidence, the leader told reporters. (Interfax) 0Ex-Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev has doubted that Russia’s presidential election results reflect real preferences of the public, Interfax reports. However, no falsifications can be claimed without documentary evidence, the leader told reporters. (Interfax)  Russia, Mikhail Gorbachev, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Russians elect Putin########21.00 Moscow Time, which is 17.00 UTC, marked the end of voting in Russia’s presidential elections. This coincided with the closure of the polling stations in the country’s westernmost region of Kaliningrad.021.00 Moscow Time, which is 17.00 UTC, marked the end of voting in Russia’s presidential elections. This coincided with the closure of the polling stations in the country’s westernmost region of Kaliningrad. Head of the Central Election Commission Vladimir Churov has already unveiled the results of a count of about one sixth of the ballot papers: "I am naming the contenders in alphabetical order. Vladimir Zhirinovsky got 8.01%, Gennady Ziuganov, 17.85%, Sergei Mironov, 3.67% Mikhail Prokhorov, 7.55%, and Vladimir Putin, 61.81%. The Central Election Commission has received and processed 14.5% of the counting protocols compiled by the district commissions". In an exit poll conducted outside 1,000 polling stations in 63 regions, Putin got over 58%, Ziuganov, almost 18%,  Prokhorov, a little over 9%, Zhirinovsky, 8.5%, and Mironov, less than 5%. Overall, both the counts and the exit poll suggest a convincing outright victory by Vladimir Putin. The voter turnout as of 18.00 Moscow Time amounted to over 56%. The comparable figure in the latest Duma elections last December was 50.4%. In the presidential elections of 2008, the total turnout reached 69.81%. Now the irregularities in the voting process. The ‘Golos’ association says there were some 3 thousand. The ‘Civil Control’ organization says it received about several hundred complaints, of which only several dozen subsequently proved justified. Most of the complaints were about illegal voting-day campaigning, mix-ups in voter lists and instances of ballot stuffing. There should be full clarity after the returning officers open all of the ballot boxes. Some of the culprits are already being held and questioned. CIS observer from Azerbaijan Arif Ragimzade praises the organization of Russia’s elections: "I closely inspected eight polling stations and watched the voting there. I also met with representatives of the candidates and returning officers from several parties. I can confirm that the organization was perfect. Irregularities were conspicuous by their absence". The organization at the polling stations during these elections was much better than at earlier honorary Speaker of the Belgian Parliament Anne-Marie Lizin told in an exclusive interview to the “Voice of Russia”: "Well, I’s my fifth time in the elections in Russia. And I was in Tver area this time. So it’s 160 km from Moscow and it was very free. And it was really very good organized and I’ve seen the first election looking from St. Petersburg and it was little beginning of the system in 92. And I must say that now people have the right list for all offices where we went, for all polling stations where we went it was good. And in one of the polling stations I somebody telling me you should go to another one because it was under comfort and I went to the one he advised me to go and really it was normal." The final official results of Sunday’s elections are to be announced between March 14th and 17th. Natalya Kovalenko Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Putin leads presidential race########Vladimir Putin leads in the first round of the Russian presidential election. The result is that the current prime minister has been supported by 64.63% of voters. The second result, 17.08%, belongs to the leader of the Russian Communist Party Gennady Zyuganov.0Vladimir Putin leads in the first round of the Russian presidential election. The result is that the current prime minister has been supported by 64.63% of voters. The second result, 17.08%, belongs to the leader of the Russian Communist Party Gennady Zyuganov. The Chairman of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky has won 6.58%, businessman Mikhail Prokhorov 6.91% and the leader of A Just Russia Sergey Mironov 3.72%. These figures will become more accurate in the course of counting votes. The Central Election Committee is promising to publish complete preliminary data at 10:00 a.m. Moscow time (6:00 a.m. GMT) on the 5th of March. 99.9% of ballot papers will have been processed by that time. Over 700 foreign observers watched the voting. They did not notice any serious violations. Sobinf Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####More Putin’s supporters in Moscow center########The number of pro-Putin rally participants in Moscow’s central Manezhnaya Square has exceeded 110,000, police report. They came to celebrate Putin’s victory. According to preliminary results, the PM has won the election in the first round. At 9.50 p.m.The number of pro-Putin rally participants in Moscow’s central Manezhnaya Square has exceeded 110,000, police report. They came to celebrate Putin’s victory. According to preliminary results, the PM has won the election in the first round. At 9.50 p.m. Moscow time, over 110,000 people flooded the Square and nearby Tverskaya, Mokhovaya Streets and the Revolution Square. 0The rally was earlier expected to draw only 15,000 participants. Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, rally in support, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Putin to attend Manezhnaya rally########Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin will attend a rally of his supporters in Manezhnaya Square and will later go to his campaign office, Putin’s press-secretary Dmitry Peskov told reporters. Thousands of people are now flooding the central Square to take part in the rally.| According to the preliminary results, Putin has won the election. (RIAN)Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin will attend a rally of his supporters in Manezhnaya Square and will later go to his campaign office, Putin’s press-secretary Dmitry Peskov told reporters. Thousands of people are now flooding the central Square to take part in the rally.| According to the preliminary results, Putin has won the election. (RIAN) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, rally in support, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Putin, Medvedev address supporters in Moscow########Russia’s PM and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin said that he won in open and fair battle. He stated this addressing his supporters in Manezhnaya Square. "I once asked you: are we going to make it and we made it. We won today supported by  the majority, Putin said.Russia’s PM and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin said that he won in open and fair battle. He stated this addressing his supporters in Manezhnaya Square. "I once asked you: are we going to make it and we made it. We won today supported by  the majority, Putin said. I promise to work hard and fair and we will succeed. So I urge all of you to unite for the sake of our nation and Motherland", PM added. Putin had tears in his eyes when saying this – due to a strong wind or emotions. Earlier, President Medvedev addressed people saying that he is sure of Putin’s victory and it is essential for a strong, modern and independent Russia. We did it ! – Putin “Thank you all who said Yes to great Russia, PM Vladimir Putin told his supporters in Manezhnaya Square – I promised you victory and we did it!" According to preliminary results, Putin wins with 64% of votes. The 2012 presidential elections have become a political maturity and independence test for Russia, Putin told his supporters in Manezhnaya. They showed that nobody can impose anything on us, he added. Int'l monitors praise Russian vote Sunday’s presidential vote in Russia was fully in line with internationally recognized standards, representatives of a team of international monitors have said during a news briefing in Moscow. “We believe that all countries can and should follow Russia’s example today,” a Serbian observer said. Her colleague from Italy fully concurred, hailing the elections as “outstanding” and promising to advise his colleague at the European Parliament to “emulate Russian methods in electing European MPs.” Russian police did 'good job' on election day Russian police did a good job enforcing order during Sunday’s presidential elections. First Deputy Interior Minister Alexander Gorovoi has told reporters that a total of 370,000 police officers and 14,000 Interior Ministry troops, backed by 30,000 volunteers and security guards, had been mobilized to ensure law and order on election day. We won in open and fair battle-Putin Russia’s President Dmitry Medvedev and PM Vladimir Putin, who is leading the March 4 presidential election according to preliminary results, attended a rally of their supporters in Moscow’s central Manezhnaya Square. This was stated by Medvedev’s press-secretary Dmitry Peskov. Putin stated that the elections were a political maturity and independence test for Russia and they showed that nobody can impose anything on the country. We won today supported by the majority and it was a fair victory, Putin said. Over 110,000 people came to celebrate Putin’s victory with slogans and white balloons. Russians do not buy political provocations - Putin Russian presidential candidate Vladimir Putin says that Sunday’s elections demonstrated the people’s resolve to resist political provocations. “No one can force upon us something we do not want… Our people can easily differentiate between  the desire for something new and political provocations, aimed solely at destroying the Russians state and usurp power," Putin told thousands of supporters gathered on Manezhnaya square outside the Kremlin. In an earlier address to the participants in the rally President Dmitry Medvedev named Vladimir Putin the winner of Sunday’s vote. According to a preliminary count, Vladimir Putin has garnered about 64 percent of votes. Russia's elections czar says violations minimal Russia’s chief elections commissioner says that a mere 10 percent of all alleged cases of violations at Sunday’s presidential vote are likely to hold any water. “The observers point an accusing finger at everything they think is wrong... I’m sure than only one-tenth of these reports will eventually prove right,” Vladimir Churov told reporters in Moscow. Chechnya chooses Putin The voter turnout in Russia’s republic Chechnya reached 99,59%, local election Commission reports after processing 42% of all ballots. PM Vladimir Putin scored 99,73% in the republic. Next comes Gennady Zyuganov. Gennady Zyuganov: elections unfair Gennady Zyuganov, presidential candidate and the head of the Communist Party, stated that he considers the March 4 election unfair and is also unhappy with the campaigning as it lacked dialogue between candidates. "We’ve been demonstrated web-cameras at the polls for 6 weeks to distract out attention from another unfair and indecent election. As a candidate, I can’t call them fair or decent as fair elections mean fair dialogue between powers that be and the opposition. And our leaders are not prepared for it". Mikhail Prokhorov thinks about creating his own party Independent presidential candidate, tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov was happy with the election results. Though it was his political debut, Prokhorov competed with Vladimir Zhirinovsky and Sergey Mironov on equal footing. Now he thinks about creating his own party. "I think that we’ve won no matter what the result is as active, thinking people who care will now be forming a new political force. It’s a mistake to think that the elections were over on March 4 – it was just the beginning. My voters are the future ruling class that will take responsibility for everything happening in Russia". Mironov emphasizes reforms Briefing the media already before the preliminary results of Sunday’s presidential vote came in, Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia party, who also ran for the Russian presidency, said it was not so much the person who is elected to the country’s top job who matters, as the reforms he is going to implement. “No matter who becomes President, he will have to launch a series of fundamental reforms, above all social ones, and crack down hard on corruption or else this country will be in for hard times. Such a President will not last the six-year term,” Mironov said. Webcams work: Putin   Russia’s PM and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin is happy about the positive effect of his initiative to install webcams at polling stations. He said that it was a unique experience both for Russia and the whole world, speaking with observers via a video link. Putin also thanked all observers for their work and responsible attitude. All I promised will be done - Putin  Addressing a huge crowd of supporters in central Moscow in the early hours of Monday Russian PM Vladimir Putin pledged that all provisions of his election program can and will be implemented. “Dear friends, I want to thank you all for the joint work you did during this campaign. Moreover, there is a great deal of work still to be done for the benefit of our people, and this is something that can be done”, Putin said. (Vesti.ru, TASS, RIAN, Interfax, IF) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Dmitry Medvedev, Russian presidential election 2012, rally in support, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 04####Putin's supporters celebrate victory########With the preliminary results of Sunday’s vote, showing Vladimir Putin a surefire winner already in, the selection of delis at his headquarters expanded from the initial sandwiches, tea and coffee to a lusher menu of meat and fish, fruit, cheese, sushi, pies stuffed with pumpkin, fish and other palate tickling snacks.With the preliminary results of Sunday’s vote, showing Vladimir Putin a surefire winner already in, the selection of delis at his headquarters expanded from the initial sandwiches, tea and coffee to a lusher menu of meat and fish, fruit, cheese, sushi, pies stuffed with pumpkin, fish and other palate tickling snacks. No hard drinks have so far been spotted though, with waiters serving juices and soda water only. (RIAN) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Femen girls arrested for election prank########A court of Moscow’s Gagarin district has arrested for 10 and 12 days two female activists of Ukraine’s Femen group for a prank at a polling station in the Russian Academy of Sciences. The third girl arrested for 5 days only.A court of Moscow’s Gagarin district has arrested for 10 and 12 days two female activists of Ukraine’s Femen group for a prank at a polling station in the Russian Academy of Sciences. The third girl arrested for 5 days only. The girls’ lawyer stated that they are accused of disorderly conduct as they chanted slogans at the station half-naked. (IF) Russia, Moscow, opposition, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Zhirinovsky, Mironov congratulate Putin on election win########Liberal Democratic chief Vladimir Zhirinovsky and A Just Party leader Sergei Mironov have congratulated Vladimir Putin on his victory in Sunday’s presidential election. Vladimir Putin, who was running on the United Russia party list, talked with the two by phone shortly after arriving at his campaign headquarters in downtown Moscow.Liberal Democratic chief Vladimir Zhirinovsky and A Just Party leader Sergei Mironov have congratulated Vladimir Putin on his victory in Sunday’s presidential election. Vladimir Putin, who was running on the United Russia party list, talked with the two by phone shortly after arriving at his campaign headquarters in downtown Moscow. He thanked both his rivals and said there was a great deal of work still to be done, which called for a consolidation of both the parliament and  society as a whole.” (RIAN) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Sergei Mironov, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Election 2012: Putin makes it in round 1########Russia’s presidential candidate Vladimir Putin is winning in the first round according to preliminary results after processing 87% of ballots. Observers see the main intrigue of the race in who will come third –independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov or the head of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky.Russia’s presidential candidate Vladimir Putin is winning in the first round according to preliminary results after processing 87% of ballots. Observers see the main intrigue of the race in who will come third –independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov or the head of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky. By midnight Moscow time, almost 87% of ballots have been processed. Putin has scored over 64%, Gennady Zyuganov (the Communist Party) 17.04%, tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov 7.09%. Vladimir Zhirinovsky (the Liberal-Democratic Party) 6.31%, Sergey Mironov (A Just Russia) - 3.74%. Over 100,000 of Putin’s supporters celebrated their victory gathering in Moscow’s central Manezhnaya Square. PM also attended the event saying that the current elections were a political maturity and independence test for the country: - Dear friends! I want to thank all Russians who voted today, especially those who gathered in Manezhnaya. I am grateful to all our supporters across our vast Motherland. Thanks to all who said Yes to great Russia. I asked you once: will we make it? -Yes – chanted the crowd -We made it! -Oorah! -We won in a fair and open battle. -Putin!!-shouted the crowd. Supporters of Gennady Zyuganov claimed violations even before the polls were closed. However, foreign observers don’t share these claims. They were very impressed with live streaming of the voting process via web-cams. Hungarian observer, Euro Parliament MP Bela Kovacs said that this technology should be  a model to imitate by many Western countries and the EU. "Cameras are great for transparent and democratic elections. Being a Euro Parliament MP I will recommend this technology to my colleagues in the 2014 parliamentary elections". A Just Russia candidate, Sergey Mironov, said that the current campaigning was more peaceful than the December Duma elections. The Lib-Dems head, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, also made no claims though he was upset over the loss of votes in the Urals due to his inappropriate statements. However, he believes that his party will remain on Russia’s political arena despite the election result. Tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov who is now outrunning Zhirinovsky expects to get at least 11%. He said that, he run for presidency already being aware that one of the candidates will enjoy privileges so he doesn’t find the election fair. However, according to activists from the Golos Association that fiercely criticized the December voting Putin scored about 55%. The results of other candidates coincide with data from the Central Election Commission with slight deviation. Putin’s opponents seem to be ok with the results. Zhirinovsky and Mironov have already congratulated him on the victory. Vladimir Putin, the widely recognized winner of Sunday’s presidential vote, has addressed thousands of supporters who gathered on Manezhnaya square just outside the Kremlin.  He thanked the huge crowd of an estimated 110,000 for their support and trust. "Dear friends, first of all I want to thank all my fellow citizens who came to the polling places and even more so those who gathered here in Moscow and our supporters all across Russia... Thanks to all those who said ”yes” to a great Russia. I once asked you “Will we win?” and we won! We won in an open and fair campaign. This election was more than just a vote for president. It put to the hard test our political and social maturity and independence. It proved that no one can force upon us something we do not want… Our people can easily differentiate between the desire for something new and political provocations, aimed solely at destroying the Russian state and usurp power. Our people proved that they will never allow this to happen here. Today we won thanks to the overwhelming support we got from our voters and we’ll be working real hard and in good faith to achieve success. We urge everyone to rally behind the  shared interest of our people and our Motherland. I promised you we would win and win we did!” Igor Siletsky Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, rally in support, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Candidates ponder Election Day results########Vladimir Putin has been taking congratulations from his rivals in Sunday’s presidential election on his victory which now looks almost sure with 80 percent of ballots already in. Putin is almost 50 percent ahead of the second-placed Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov who is trailing behind with 17 percent.Vladimir Putin has been taking congratulations from his rivals in Sunday’s presidential election on his victory which now looks almost sure with 80 percent of ballots already in. Putin is almost 50 percent ahead of the second-placed Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov who is trailing behind with 17 percent. The third place is likely to go to billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov, who is followed by Liberal Democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky and Sergei Mironov of A Just Russia party. On the way to his campaign headquarters, Vladimir Putin, joined by President Dmitry Medvedev, addressed a huge crowd of supporters gathered on Manezhnaya square in the city center. He thanked all those who backed his candidacy “in every corner of our great country”, adding there was a great deal of work still waiting ahead. "Dear friends, I want to thank you all for the joint work you did during this campaign. Moreover, there is a great deal of work still to be done for the benefit of our people, and this is something that can be done". Those on the losing end of this past campaign do not really have any questions about the outcome of Sunday’s vote. They admit there were violations before and on election day, but not of the kind to seriously alter the final tally. Vladimir Zhirinovsky and Sergei Mironov have been quick to congratulate Putin on his win. The Liberal Democratic leader did say, however, that those who had cast their lot with him were people of  “conscience and honor” and pledged to stay in politics. Sergei Mironov warned Vladimir Putin about the problems he is going to deal with during his third stint in the Kremlin. “No matter who becomes President, he will have to launch a series of fundamental reforms, above all social ones, and crack down hard on corruption or else this country will be in for hard times. Such a President will not last the six-year term,” Mironov said. The leader of the Communists Gennady Zyuganov has no intentions to congratulate the winner as his party doesn’t recognize the election results. "We’ve been demonstrated web-cameras at the polls for 6 weeks to distract out attention from another unfair and indecent election. As a candidate, I can’t call them fair or decent as fair elections mean fair dialogue between powers that be and the opposition. And our leaders are not prepared for it". Political debutant Mikhail Prokhorov has no doubts that his final result will exceed 11% and he’ll be ranked third, leaving Vladimir Zhirinovsky behind. Any rank except the last is a victory, believes Mikhail. "I think that we’ve won no matter what the result is as active, thinking people who care will now be forming a new political force. It’s a mistake to think that the elections were over on March 4 – it was just the beginning. My voters are the future ruling class that will take responsibility for everything happening in Russia". Putin talked to Prokhorov over the phone and said that the businessman did great and his campaign was quite interesting. Putin also wished Prokhorov luck in creating a new far-right party. Foreign observers have unanimously confirmed the legitimacy of the March 4 election. Putin’s rivals agree with them. As for experts, they’re trying to predict what will happen to Russia next. Most of them expect political reforms and changes in the government. Igor Siletsky Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin receives 63,82 % of vote – Central Elections Commission########Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin who, according to the Central Elections Commission, is the winner in the March 4 presidential elections visited the 110,000-plus-strong rally of his supporters on Moscow’s Manezhnaya Square, Putin’s press secretary Dmitry Peskov said on Monday. Also in attendance was Russia’s current President Dmitry Medvedev.Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin who, according to the Central Elections Commission, is the winner in the March 4 presidential elections visited the 110,000-plus-strong rally of his supporters on Moscow’s Manezhnaya Square, Putin’s press secretary Dmitry Peskov said on Monday. Also in attendance was Russia’s current President Dmitry Medvedev. Speaking at the rally, Putin said, in particular, that the elections tested the country’s “political maturity and independence”, and that “we won thanks to the overwhelming support of our electorate.”    With over 99 percent of all ballots counted, Putin has 63,82 percent of the vote, according to preliminary results announced by the Central Elections Commission. Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov has 17,18 percent, while independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov comes third with 7,77 percent. He gets the better of Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky who has 6,25 percent. Sergei Mironov, leader of a Just Russia Party, has 3,8 percent of the vote. RIAN   Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin leads in presidential election########Vladimir Putin is securely in the lead following Sunday’s presidential election in Russia.He has polled some 64% of the votes now that 99% of ballots have been counted. He is followed by the Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov with slightly over 17% of the votes, billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky and the leader of A Just Russia party Sergei Mironov, who came in last. It is the first time that a Russian President has been elected for a six-year term in office. When voting drew to a close last night, Vladimir Putin addressed a rally of 110,000 of his supporters in downtown Moscow. He thanked voters for support and said it was democracy and patriotism that had won. He then addressed people in a number of Russian cities from his election headquarters via a TV link-up to assure them that he would honour all of his election pledges. According to the Head of the Central Elections Commission Vladimir Churov, the preliminary returns are due to be made public at 10 a.m. Moscow time on Monday. The Commission will make public the official returns before March 14th . TASS, RIAN, IF Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####No major voting irregularities in Russian election – monitors########The monitors of the CIS Inter-Parliamentary Assembly have registered no major voting irregularities during the presidential election in Russia. Officials of the independent foreign monitoring group told a news briefing at the Central Elections Commission Information Centre that the election was held in line with international law standards.The monitors of the CIS Inter-Parliamentary Assembly have registered no major voting irregularities during the presidential election in Russia. Officials of the independent foreign monitoring group told a news briefing at the Central Elections Commission Information Centre that the election was held in line with international law standards. It is safe to claim that the rest of the world should take the cue from Russia, a Serbian monitor said. An Italian monitor referred to the election as fantastic and democratic. A Hungarian monitor said he would recommend that the European Parliament use Russian election technology. A human rights activist from Finland, Jon Hellevig, said the campaign to discredit the Russian election had failed. His compatriot Johann Beckmann said that despite western mass media claims that votes were systematically rigged during the Russian presidential election, the monitors assured that the opposite was true. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin elected Russian President – Churov########The Chairman of the Russian Central Elections Commission Vladimir Churov has said that, according to preliminary election returns, Vladimir Putin has been elected Russian President in the first round.Now that 99.3% of the votes have been counted, Putin has polled 63.75% of the votes, Gennady Zyuganov, 17.19%; Mikhail Prokhorov, 7.82%; Vladimir Zhirinovsky, 6.23%; and Sergei Mironov, 3.85% of the votes cast. RIAN Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin securely wins Russian presidential election########Vladimir Putin is securely winning Sunday’s presidential election in Russia.The Head of the Russian Central Elections Commission, Vladimir Churov, has made public preliminary returns after more than 99% of the votes have been counted, whereby over 45 million voters, or 63.75% of the electorate, cast their ballots for Prime Minister Putin. He is followed by the Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov, with slightly over 17% of the votes; billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov, the Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky, and the leader of A Just Russia party, Sergei Mironov. The turnout exceeded 65%. This is the first time that Russian President has been elected for six years. Churov refuted reports that monitors and election commission members had been removed from polling stations en masse. According to him, a mere 77 observers out of the more than 300,000 were indeed removed. The Central Elections Commission is due to make public the official returns before the 14th of this month. TV Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin’s win promises stability, market revival – Bloomberg########Vladimir Putin’s win of the Russian presidential election holds promise for stability and the revival of financial markets, according to foreign investors’ opinion that’s reported by the Bloomberg business news agency. Investors are now expecting a jump in the inflow of capital into Russia.Vladimir Putin’s win of the Russian presidential election holds promise for stability and the revival of financial markets, according to foreign investors’ opinion that’s reported by the Bloomberg business news agency. Investors are now expecting a jump in the inflow of capital into Russia. According to the managing partner at Quesnell Capital, Ian McCall, Russia boasts better conditions for foreign investors today, namely political continuity and a stable economic situation. According to Matthias Westman, the manager of Prosperity Capital Management, Putin’s win amounts to support for his pre-election pledge to implement a plan to privatize state-run companies and launch political reforms. This may result in major growth in Russian stock market indices, experts point out. TASS Russia, World, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####2012 elections: Putin sweeps victory########Russia’s Prime Minister and presidential candidate Vladimir Putin is poised to win the presidential vote in the first round after nearly 100 percent of ballots have been counted.Independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov and Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky are vying for third place in the elections with Prokhorov running more than one percent ahead of Zhirinovsky. Vladimir Putin will become president of Russia for the third time. Nearly 64% of voters cast their ballots in favor of Putin, who represents the United Russia Party. Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov is running second with 17.2 percent of the votes. Tycoon Mikhail Prokhorov garnered 7.8%, Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky – 6.23%. The leader of the center-left A Just Russia Party Sergei Mironov is fourth on the list with 3.85%. Chairman of the Russian Election Commission Vladimir Churov had this to say. "After counting more than 99% of ballots, members of the commission reported that the turnout was 65.3%, which is 5% higher than in the parliamentary elections on December 5th . According to preliminary reports, 45 million 109 thousand ballots were cast for Vladimir Putin, which makes 65.75% of the turnout." More than 100,000 supporters of Vladimir Putin gathered for a rally on Manezh Square in downtown Moscow. Shortly after the announcement of the ballot count results, Putin addressed the rally in person. "Dear friends! Thank you for taking part in the elections. Thank you for coming here. I’d like to offer special thanks to those who support me in all corners of our vast country. Thank you for saying ‘yes’ to great Russia. I asked you before the vote: Will we win? You said: Yes! We’ve won!" -         Hurrah! We won in an open and honest battle. -         Putin! Well before the closure of the last polling station Gennady Zyuganov’s campaign headquarters reported “massive fraud” during the voting. Shortly after reports about the results of the vote, the Communist leader said that for him the elections were neither honest, nor fair or worthy. Zyuganov’s opponents disagree, just as most observers do. Even the independent election watchdog Golos, known for its criticism of the December elections, admits that Putin has won, even though not as many votes as reported by the Central Election Commission. International observers were impressed by live broadcasts of the voting by webcameras. Bela Kovach, an observer from Hungary, believes that this could become an example to follow for many western countries and the EU as a whole. "Cameras come in handy for those organizing the elections and in ensuring transparency of the vote. They pave the way to open, democratic elections. As a European Parliament deputy, I’ll advise my colleagues to use webcameras in the 2014 parliamentary elections." A Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov says that the elections went off far more smoothly than the parliamentary vote in December. Liberal Democratic leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky has made no particular claims either saying that the elections went off well. Zhirinovsky lamented losing a number of votes in the Urals on account of his not-so-pleasant statements but said that no matter what the election outcome was, his party would not disappear from the Russian political scene. Independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov, who runs third in the ballot count, has reaffirmed his intention of staying in politics. Even though he received a bit more than 7% of the votes against 10-11% expected, Prokhorov said that he had enough support to create his own party and that his party might appear on the Russian political scene at the end of March. Prokhorov’s initiative was backed by Vladimir Putin as the two had a telephone conversation after the elections. Putin described Prokhorov’s election campaign as “dignified”. Vladimir Putin has also received congratulations from Vladimir Zhirinovsky and Sergei Mironov. The Central Election Commission will release the official results of the 2012 presidential campaign by March 16th . Igor Siletsky Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Foreign observers on Russian Presidential elections########The 2012 Russian presidential election started on March 4th, 2012. Though this time the government tried to reach maximum vote transparency, some reports say there were violations during the voting.The 2012 Russian presidential election started on March 4th, 2012. Though this time the government tried to reach maximum vote transparency, some reports say there were violations during the voting. We will talk with Mateusz Piskorski, a Former Deputy of the Polish Parliament and now the Member of the Team of Foreign Observers, watching the elections in Russia, to see what was his impression of today’s voting in Russia.  Was Russian Presidential Election fair?  Download audio file This time Russian elections were watched by a group of first-time election observers and hundreds of thousands of citizens accessing ballot boxes via the network of Web cameras. Now we will join on the line with Jan Mladek, who is an international observer in Russia at the moment, coming to us from the Czech Republic. He visited 7 places of voting and will tell us his view on the election process in Russia. The results of Russian voting surprised the observers  Download audio file Today is the day of the presidential elections In Russia with 5 officially registered candidates – 4 representatives of registered parties and one independent. We will now be joined by Pavel Danilin, Political Scientist and Analyst currently located in Moscow, who will share his view on the results of the Russian voting.  Carmen Russell-Sluchansky Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Foreign leaders congratulate Putin on election winning########Foreign leaders are extending congratulations to Vladimir Putin on winning Sunday’s presidential election in Russia. China’s President Hu Jintao has voiced certainty that Russia will boast major achievements while building a powerful and prosperous state.Foreign leaders are extending congratulations to Vladimir Putin on winning Sunday’s presidential election in Russia. China’s President Hu Jintao has voiced certainty that Russia will boast major achievements while building a powerful and prosperous state. The Tajik leader Emomali Rahmon said that it follows from the expression of will by the Russian people that the policy to develop and modernize the country has won major support. The Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev points out in his telegram that Russia’s success and achievement is rightfully associated with Vladimir Putin. President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela said that his government welcomes the mature choice of the people of Russia, reflecting their will to strengthen their great Fatherland by following the path of peace, well-being and development. TASS, RIAN, IF Russia, World, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####What helped Putin win?########As the presidential elections are taking place in Russia, local and international community argues if this time the elections were free and fair. Some reports say there were some violations during the voting.As the presidential elections are taking place in Russia, local and international community argues if this time the elections were free and fair. Some reports say there were some violations during the voting. So now we will talk with Vyacheslav Nikonov, President of the Politika Foundation to find out how he rates this election compared to other Russian elections and how he evaluates the results of the voting.  Carmen Russell-Sluchansky Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####What are the reasons for Putin’s victory?########The exit polls of the Russian voting are indicating that Vladimir Putin is going to win and the preliminary numbers now are 61% for Putin. We will discuss the results of the election with Vladislav Gaganov, Executive Director of the Russian Public Institute of Electoral Law.The exit polls of the Russian voting are indicating that Vladimir Putin is going to win and the preliminary numbers now are 61% for Putin. We will discuss the results of the election with Vladislav Gaganov, Executive Director of the Russian Public Institute of Electoral Law. Ricardo Young Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Russia abides by principles of fair, open elections – monitors########Russia adheres in full to the principles of fair and open elections, the independent foreign monitoring group said in an official statement that was read out during a news briefing in Moscow earlier today.  Criticisms expressed are particulars, a spokesman for the group, Clyde Preston, said.Russia adheres in full to the principles of fair and open elections, the independent foreign monitoring group said in an official statement that was read out during a news briefing in Moscow earlier today.  Criticisms expressed are particulars, a spokesman for the group, Clyde Preston, said. According to him, he could safely give a “B” to the voting at 89% of the polling stations that the monitors had been to. The group of independent international observers comprised 50 monitors from 21 European countries and the United States. Meanwhile, the CIS monitors have also pointed out that the Russian presidential election proved transparent and was in line with democratic standards.  (IF) Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin’s relations with the opposition party########According to the preliminary results collected by the electoral commission, with returns from more than half the polling districtsAccording to the preliminary results collected by the electoral commission, with returns from more than half the polling districts, Putin gained over 64%, enough to give him a first-round victory over nearest rival Gennady Zyuganov, with about 17%. We are joined on the line with Konstantin Kosachev, Head of the International Relations Committee of the State Duma, who will share his view on the results of Russian elections.  Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####American coverage of Russian elections########As the presidential election is taking place in Russia some blame the U.S. media for one-sided coverage of the election. We will discuss this and other issues with Nikolay Pakhomov from the Institute of Democracy and Cooperation in New York. As the presidential election is taking place in Russia some blame the U.S. media for one-sided coverage of the election. We will discuss this and other issues with Nikolay Pakhomov from the Institute of Democracy and Cooperation in New York.  Ricardo Young Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin wins in landslide victory########As the numbers of the Russian voting are coming up, the Putin’s results turn out to be even stronger than it was predicted by opinion polls. What caused such a huge support of Vladimir Putin campaign? We will discuss this and other related issues with our Voice of Russia Correspondent Dmitry Babich. As the numbers of the Russian voting are coming up, the Putin’s results turn out to be even stronger than it was predicted by opinion polls. What caused such a huge support of Vladimir Putin campaign? We will discuss this and other related issues with our Voice of Russia Correspondent Dmitry Babich.  Ricardo Young Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Preparations for the meeting at the Manege########Workers have set the stage, rack with lights and metal fence at the Manege Square in Moscow, where at 4 p.m.Workers have set the stage, rack with lights and metal fence at the Manege Square in Moscow, where at 4 p.m. the meeting and the concert will start of the campaign "The choice is made." As the correspondent of "Interfax" said, the scene is set in front of the Historical Museum, the workers are setting up audio equipment and light guns, music is sounding. Participants of the meeting are not there yet, so muscovites and tourists bypassing the stage freely. Police officers patrolling the area reserved for the action. Not far from the concert stage at the Manege Square and the Square of the Revolution there are several buses and Police cars, traffic control crews and Ambulance trucks. Interfax Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Observers acknowledge legitimacy of presidential elections########Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is leading confidently in the presidential elections. With 99 per cent of the ballot papers being processed, we can say  that he is gaining  more than 63 per cent of the vote, and the Communist Party leader  Gennady Zyuganov who has 17 per cent of the vote comes second.Russia’s Prime Minister Vladimir Putin is leading confidently in the presidential elections. With 99 per cent of the ballot papers being processed, we can say  that he is gaining  more than 63 per cent of the vote, and the Communist Party leader  Gennady Zyuganov who has 17 per cent of the vote comes second. A self-promoted billionaire candidate, Mikhail Prokhorov, whose result is more than 7 per cent of the vote, is 3rd . About 6 per cent of voters cast their ballots for the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia Vladimir Zhirinovsky, while the representative of A Just Russia Party Sergei Mironov gained less than 4 per cent of the vote. The majority of Putin’s rivals as well as international observers have already acknowledged the legitimacy of the presidential elections in Russia.     “Transparent, open, and democratic elections, which were carried out in line with international standards,” independent experts who monitored the voting process say, characterizing the March 4 presidential elections in Russia which have set a record in the number of observers. More than 300,000 Russian citizens and nearly 700 independent international experts supervised the voting process. The activity of Russian citizens made a great impression on foreigners. The latter say that this is solid proof that the political self-consciousness of the Russian people is growing. The presidential elections in Russia were carried out without noticeable violations and on the whole, were in compliance with world standards, a representative of the Czech Republic and PACE vice president in 2008-2010, Mrs. Anna Curdova, said in an interview with the Voice of Russia.   "I believe that these were fair elections. And I think that they were conducted in compliance with the legislation of the Russian Federation. It seems to me that there were no violations that could have affected the election results. Perhaps, there occurred something insignificant. You know, such things occur when people work. The presidential elections in Russia have met European standards." The installment of webcams at the polling stations was a novelty this time. After the protest rallies of the opposition, which repeatedly stressed that numerous violations were registered during the latest elections to the State Duma, the Russian government made its utmost to ensure the transparency of the presidential elections in the country. The developers of the system of total video control say that it has nipped in the bud possible election rigging. A deputy of the European Parliament (Hungary), Bela Kovacs, also said that in his report to the European Parliament he would recommend using webcams for election monitoring.  "I believe that this is very important for the observance of transparency and openness of elections, which should be democratic into the bargain. That is why at all press conferences on March 4th  I said that in the future I will recommend the above-mentioned Russian technology, with the permission of the Russian Minister of Tele- and Mass Communications Minister Igor Shchegolev with whom I’ve met twice. I’m hopeful that Europe will listen to me and that at the parliamentary elections in Europe in 2014 we’ll use this technology." There were violations in Russia though. During voting both the opposition and independent observers did their utmost to draw attention to voter fraud. The corps of observers “”For Fair Elections”, which was set up on the initiative of young legal experts and which unites more than 80,000 activists across the country, has registered  about 2,000 violations. A European Parliament Deputy (Lithuania), Viktor Uspaskikh who visited nearly 20 polling stations in Moscow praised the effective work of independent observers. There were also some people in Russia who have not acknowledged the preliminary election results. The Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov said that these were illegitimate, unfair and non-transparent elections. The Communists promise to file a number of lawsuits on that score. And as regards the Russian billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov, although he stressed that violations were registered during the voting process, he is satisfied with the election results. And instead of election recount, he invited his former rivals to have breakfast at his office. Svetlana Kalmykova Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####PACE and ODIHR assess Russian election positively########PACE and ODIHR observers on the whole are giving a positive assessment of the voting process in the election in Russia.PACE and ODIHR observers on the whole are giving a positive assessment of the voting process in the election in Russia. “The election has shown the winner who has won an absolute majority, which allowed to avoid a second round,” said the head of the mission of observers from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Teeny Cox. In his opinion, though the presidential candidates could carry out their election campaign without obstruction, “one candidate (Prime Minister Vladimir Putin) had special conditions”. Teeny Cox pointed out that the election was watched more thoroughly because of higher citizens’ involvement and a better organization of the voting. Meanwhile, a group of independent observers from 21 countries of Europe and the US has declared that the standards of an open and just election were fully complied with in Russia. Their opinion is shared by CIS observers who said that the presidential election in the Russian Federation was open and democratic. RIAN, IF Russia, World, PACE, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin calls for joint effort########Vladimir Putin has thanked his rivals at the presidential election for carrying out the election campaign reasonably, in spite of all its toughness. He said this at a meeting with Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Sergey Mironov and Mikhail Prokhorov. Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov had declined the invitation to the meeting. Putin mentioned that a certain number of citizens voted for each candidate.Vladimir Putin has thanked his rivals at the presidential election for carrying out the election campaign reasonably, in spite of all its toughness. He said this at a meeting with Vladimir Zhirinovsky, Sergey Mironov and Mikhail Prokhorov. Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov had declined the invitation to the meeting. Putin mentioned that a certain number of citizens voted for each candidate. “I would like to congratulate you on your results. Some of you gained more, some less,” Putin added. “We should highly respect the people who took part in the election,” he said. The prime minister who, according to preliminary data,  has won in the first round, proposed “to talk about further cooperation.” “We should join our efforts so as to solve the country’s problems more effectively,” Putin concluded. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Russian election transparent - Turkish observer########“In their striving for democracy, Russians have held a transparent election”, a member of the Turkish delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said in an interview with ITAR-TASS today. “We noticed an especially high voters’ turnout in Tatarstan, a republic in the Volga Region,” Cavusoglu said.“In their striving for democracy, Russians have held a transparent election”, a member of the Turkish delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said in an interview with ITAR-TASS today. “We noticed an especially high voters’ turnout in Tatarstan, a republic in the Volga Region,” Cavusoglu said. As an international observer, he visited several city and rural polling stations and saw “a high organization level everywhere’” he said.  “Even in a small Tatar village we saw an electronic election system which was functioning smoothly”, the European MP said. TASS Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####EU hopeful of successful Putin term########According to a spokeswoman for the European Union’s High Foreign Policy Representative Catherine Ashton, the EU expects Vladimir Putin to advance modernization in partnership with civil society. It is also looking forward to a productive partnership between itself and Russia during Putin’s next presidential term. (RIAN)According to a spokeswoman for the European Union’s High Foreign Policy Representative Catherine Ashton, the EU expects Vladimir Putin to advance modernization in partnership with civil society. It is also looking forward to a productive partnership between itself and Russia during Putin’s next presidential term. 0(RIAN) Russia, World, Russia-EU relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin gained 63.6% after processing 99,99% of protocols - CEC########After processing 99.99 percent of protocols Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin gaining 63.60% of votes at presidential elections in Russia according to the CEC. According to the CEC, the CPRF leader Gennady Zyuganov - 17.18%, a self-nominated Mikhail Prokhorov - 7.98%, the head of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky - 6.22%, the leader of the "Fair Russia" Sergei Mironov - 3.86% of votes.After processing 99.99 percent of protocols Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin gaining 63.60% of votes at presidential elections in Russia according to the CEC. According to the CEC, the CPRF leader Gennady Zyuganov - 17.18%, a self-nominated Mikhail Prokhorov - 7.98%, the head of the Liberal Democratic Party Vladimir Zhirinovsky - 6.22%, the leader of the "Fair Russia" Sergei Mironov - 3.86% of votes. The Russian president is elected for the first time in six years. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####The Prosecutor's office sent a warning to oppositionists########Moscow Prosecutor's Office sent warnings about inadmissibility of law violation to opposition members, including Boris Nemtsov, Alexei Navalny and Sergei Udaltsov, said the capital prosecutor's office on Monday. On Monday night the opposition intends to take part in a meeting on Pushkin Square in the center of Moscow. (RIAN)Moscow Prosecutor's Office sent warnings about inadmissibility of law violation to opposition members, including Boris Nemtsov, Alexei Navalny and Sergei Udaltsov, said the capital prosecutor's office on Monday. On Monday night the opposition intends to take part in a meeting on Pushkin Square in the center of Moscow. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, rallies in Moscow, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Opposition Protesters are gathering on Pushkin Square########People with the opposition symbolic, who came to the meeting "For fair elections", begin to approach Pushkin Square. As the correspondent of the "Interfax" said, at the moment the entrance is already opened into the territory reserved for the event, there are about 20-frame metal detectors. The stage set in front of the Pushkinsky theatre.People with the opposition symbolic, who came to the meeting "For fair elections", begin to approach Pushkin Square. As the correspondent of the "Interfax" said, at the moment the entrance is already opened into the territory reserved for the event, there are about 20-frame metal detectors. The stage set in front of the Pushkinsky theatre. There people in front of it with symbolic of movement "Solidarity", "Democratic Union" party "Yabloko", as well as with already traditional white ribbons. In addition organized groups of people are gathering in the space near the exit of the subway. Police is keeping the situation under control. The large posters with symbolic “For fair election” are hanging on the Square. Meanwhile, on Pushkin Square has been noticed some people who are planning to go to Manege Square, where the action will be held in support of Vladimir Putin. The organizers of these groups distribute their ribbons colors of Russian flag, as well as St. George ribbons. (IF) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies in Moscow, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####10 thousand people came to Manezhnaya Square to support Putin########The youth movement "Nashi" (Ours) gathered at the meeting in support of winning the presidential election of Vladimir PutinThe youth movement "Nashi" (Ours) gathered at the meeting in support of winning the presidential election of Vladimir Putin, about 10 thousand people, said the press service of the State Ministry of Internal Affairs "Meeting began at the Manege Square and the territory nearby organized by a youth movement" Nashi ". Number of participants - about 10 thousand people," - said the press service officer to Interfax on Monday. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies in Moscow, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####800 people took part in the opposition meeting in St. Petersburg, 70 were arrested########Police arrested about 70 people on unauthorized meeting of the opposition on St. Isaac Square in St. Petersburg on Monday, said the press service Press Service of the Ministry of Interior in the northern capital and the Leningrad region.Police arrested about 70 people on unauthorized meeting of the opposition on St. Isaac Square in St. Petersburg on Monday, said the press service Press Service of the Ministry of Interior in the northern capital and the Leningrad region. St. Petersburg police arrested unsanctioned meeting participants The staff of the St. Petersburg police began to arrest people who came to unauthorized action to the walls of the city parliament, "Interfax"reports. Arrests began to happen after a group of protesters tried to pass the entrance to Parliament. Along with the activists the members of parliament from the party "Yabloko" were also arrested. About 15 people were arrested. Police continues to guard St. Isaac's Square. (IF) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin’s triumph ‘fair’ – French FM########Le Figaro quotes French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe as saying he has no reason to question the fairness of the first-round victory by Vladimir Putin in Sunday’s presidential elections. He reportedly also said that he was looking forward to another six years of productive cooperation between his country and Russia. (IFLe Figaro quotes French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe as saying he has no reason to question the fairness of the first-round victory by Vladimir Putin in Sunday’s presidential elections. He reportedly also said that he was looking forward to another six years of productive cooperation between his country and Russia. (IF) Russia, World, Vladimir Putin, France, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Convincing victory########The world’s leading media  are commenting on the presidential election in Russia which took place on the 4th of March. They are reporting the fact of current Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s victory, describing the violations during the voting, and predicting potential street marches of the opposition.The world’s leading media  are commenting on the presidential election in Russia which took place on the 4th of March. They are reporting the fact of current Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s victory, describing the violations during the voting, and predicting potential street marches of the opposition. 99.8% of the ballots processed show that 63.65% of citizens voted for Putin. Commenting on the preliminary results of the presidential election in Russia, practically all foreign media point out that they had no doubt that most Russians would vote for the prime minister. “Vladimir Putin’s triumph was to be expected,” The Washington Post writes. The German Spiegel gives a detailed description of Putin’s appearance at a meeting in his support. 100,000 of the prime minister’s supporters met in the centre of Moscow late at night. In the article ‘Putin Wins Presidential Election’, Reuters points out that the 59-year-old Putin remains the most influential and popular politician in Russia, who positions himself as a man of action and protector of stability. French political scientist Dmitri de Koshko stressed in his interview with The Voice of Russia that there were practically no other candidates at this election. “We can say that this result was to be expected, though the exact figures were unknown. The results did not come as a surprise, they prove his popularity with people. In spite of the opposition’s accusations of violations at some polling stations, no one doubts that Vladimir Putin has the majority of votes. What is illogical, a middle class has emerged in Russia owing to Putin’s policy and these people are well-off now, but still they are his opposition and he will have to take them into consideration during his new six-year presidential term.” Foreign publications are paying great attention to the opposition which complains of violations and ballot rigging. The Washington Post writes that activists reported violations all day. Meanwhile, international observers have highly acclaimed the video-monitoring system at the election. 95,000 polling stations were equipped with web cameras, which allowed everyone to watch the voting. Spokesmen of the PACE, the EU, the SCO and other organizations stressed in their reports that they recognised the legitimacy of the presidential election in Russia and did not doubt Putin’s victory in the first round. Western newspapers are forecasting a new wave of street protests. The New York Times writes that an overwhelming majority of Russian voters have supported Putin for the next six-year term but this predictable result has laid a foundation for a post election confrontation between the leader and the opposition which has sent protesters into the streets many times. German Professor of Political Science Eberhard Schneider is convinced that the Russian political system is becoming more open due to  movements of protest. “I have read all Putin’s seven articles. I hope that all laws proposed by President Medvedev to the State Duma about direct elections of regional governors and about political parties, as well as  Putin’s proposals in his article on Russia’s domestic policy will be put into operation. If all this becomes law it will become possible to change the Russian political system and citizens will get more opportunities to participate in the political process”. Svetlana Kalmykova Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin thanks campaign activists########At a meeting outside Moscow Monday, Vladimir Putin extended thanks to his campaign activists. His audience consisted of 30 politicians, officials, academics and celebrities who threw their full weight behind him during the presidential race. A count of almost 100% of the ballot papers gives Putin an outright victory with a convincing 63.6% of the vote.At a meeting outside Moscow Monday, Vladimir Putin extended thanks to his campaign activists. His audience consisted of 30 politicians, officials, academics and celebrities who threw their full weight behind him during the presidential race. A count of almost 100% of the ballot papers gives Putin an outright victory with a convincing 63.6% of the vote. The Communist Gennady Ziuganov has 17.18%, the independent candidate, billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov, 7.98%, the Liberal Democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky, 6.22%, and leader of the Just Russia party Sergei Mironov, 3.85%. (RIAN) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Post-election meetings in Moscow########Votes in support of Vladimir Putin are votes in favour of Russia’s future, Secretary of the General Council of United Russia and Vice Speaker of Parliament Sergey Neverov said at a meeting in Manezh Square in Moscow.Votes in support of Vladimir Putin are votes in favour of Russia’s future, Secretary of the General Council of United Russia and Vice Speaker of Parliament Sergey Neverov said at a meeting in Manezh Square in Moscow. Repeated Olympic champion Vyacheslav Fetisov said in his turn that Putin is a president who has united the nation and given us a chance to live in a contemporary world. He called the opposition to stop making trouble and start building a new Russia together. The leader of United Russia’s faction in Parliament Andrey Vorobyov assured that the election process will keep improving. About 15,000 Putin’s followers attended the meeting. Several thousand people took part in the opposition action in Pushkin Square. About 300 people participated in the Communist protest action. TASS Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies in Moscow, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Russia’s elections attract foreign praise########The foreign observers of Russia’s elections, including from the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, have praised the elections for transparency, fairness and excellent organization.The foreign observers of Russia’s elections, including from the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, have praised the elections for transparency, fairness and excellent organization. Many said they would advise their governments to emulate Russia’s latest electoral knowhow, such as the transparent ballot boxes and the web cameras installed at each polling station. American monitor Clyden Preston said he hadn’t encountered a single irregularity in the voting process. Italy’s Alesandro Musolino described the elections as being up to the highest international democracy standards. (TASS) Russia, World, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Putin holds optimistic dialogue with his opponents########Vladimir Putin has thanked his opponents in Russia’s presidential election of 2012 for launching a tough but clean election campaign and said there is a need to investigate all accusations of violations during the voting.Vladimir Putin has thanked his opponents in Russia’s presidential election of 2012 for launching a tough but clean election campaign and said there is a need to investigate all accusations of violations during the voting. The Russian Prime Minister, who according to the preliminary results of the Central Electoral Commission, won the presidential elections met with the other candidates. Only Gennady Zyuganov, who won the second place, refused to meet the future Russian President. All the others, leader of the Liberal Democratic Party, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, and head of A Just Russia Party, Sergei Mironov and billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov came to the meeting. After the elections, the Russian political parties should find compromises and start doing creative work, Vladimir Putin said. “I would like to thank you not only for last evening’s congratulations, but also for the fact that this election campaign had no excessive mudslinging as in the past, although it was a very tough one. The campaign was conducted correctly and intelligently by candidates themselves and their staffs. I would like to congratulate on your results. Someone achieved more than expected and some others less than expected. However, the main thing is that the people who backed you. Many people voted for you. We all should respect these people and consequently, I invited you to meet together and discuss how to work in the future,” Vladimir Putin said. "Of course, disputes are inevitable because we have often different approaches towards the resolution of tasks before the country. But we should reach consensuses and find compromises and find sensible solutions for our people, our citizens," Vladimir Putin emphasized. We all should make coordinated efforts to solve effectively the problems standing before the country. Vladimir Putin supported an idea put forward by Mikhail Prokhorov who plans to found his own party and did not exclude the possibility of establishing constructive cooperation. Another candidate for presidency, Vladimir Zhirinovsky who contested for the fifth time, confirmed that his party would work with the new President. “I hope that some points in my manifesto will be discussed by the government because they are useful for the country,” head of the LDPR said. Sergei Mironov promised to actively cooperate with the Prime Minister and insisted that it was time to work rather than holding meetings. Mikhail Prokhorov said that it would be very important to investigate each and every violation at the elections, and those who violated the election law be punished. This is very important for us and to move the country further, the only independent candidate at the presidential election, Mikhail Prokhorov said. Vladimir Putin assured his former opponents that the head of the Electoral Commission would draw attention to the violations and all these would be thoroughly investigated. The meeting of the candidates for presidency was held on a neutral territory, at a health resort in Zhukovka. Putin’s election staff expressed the regret that leader of the Communist Party Gennady Zyuganov refused to attend the meeting. Svetlana Andreyeva Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, opposition, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 05####Opposition rally in Moscow is over########The opposition meeting in Pushkin Square in Moscow is officially over, the Interior Ministry press-service has reported to Interfax. Some of the participants in the opposition meeting are refusing to leave the square and announcing an unlimited action of protest, the organiser of the meeting, left-wing politician Sergey Udaltsov reports.The opposition meeting in Pushkin Square in Moscow is officially over, the Interior Ministry press-service has reported to Interfax. Some of the participants in the opposition meeting are refusing to leave the square and announcing an unlimited action of protest, the organiser of the meeting, left-wing politician Sergey Udaltsov reports. He says that tents will be set up in the square and that the representatives of the opposition are forming a protest ring. Interfax Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies in Moscow, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 06####Putin’s victory supported throughout Russia########Demonstrations were held in many Russian regions on Monday to support the election of Vladimir Putin as Russia’s next President. Rallies and processions were held in Yekaterinburg, Volgograd, Samara, Vladivostok, Yakutsk, and Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky.Demonstrations were held in many Russian regions on Monday to support the election of Vladimir Putin as Russia’s next President. Rallies and processions were held in Yekaterinburg, Volgograd, Samara, Vladivostok, Yakutsk, and Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. The Secretary of the United Russia party’s General Council, Deputy Speaker of the State Duma Sergei Neverov told a 15,000-strong rally in downtown Moscow that the votes cast for Vladimir Putin were in fact cast for the future of Russia. On the other hand, some 300 Communists gathered in central Moscow to protest against the election results. In the vicinity, in Pushkin Square, more than 10,000 right- and left-wing opposition members held their own rally, which ended in the detention of some 300 protesters who would not leave the place after the rally was over and tried to block traffic in central Moscow. Most of those detained were released shortly afterwards. Several hundred young people in St. Petersburg attempted to stage an unauthorized demonstration against the presidential election returns, but were arrested by police. Vesti.ru, TASS, TVC Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, rally in support, Elections 2012. News, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 06####Situation in Russia is getting tenser after the elections########Presidential election in Russia is over and Vladimir Putin has been elected the next president. That spurred many people of the opposition parties planning to take to the streets to challenge his right to rule. We will discuss the current situation in Russia with Boris Makarenko, Director of Political Technology Center. Presidential election in Russia is over and Vladimir Putin has been elected the next president. That spurred many people of the opposition parties planning to take to the streets to challenge his right to rule. We will discuss the current situation in Russia with Boris Makarenko, Director of Political Technology Center.  Ricardo Young Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. News, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 06####Has there been a fraud during Russian Elections?########The presidential election in Russia came to an end but now some of the monitors report that there were serious problems that they observed during the vote over this weekend and that they feel that there maybe some electoral violations.The presidential election in Russia came to an end but now some of the monitors report that there were serious problems that they observed during the vote over this weekend and that they feel that there maybe some electoral violations. That found response among the protesters who are now planning to organize another rally against Vladimir Putin, who won the election. We will discuss this and other related issues with Vyacheslav Tetyokin, the Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party and a Member of Parliament, and Sergey Markov, the Putin Representative for the March 4th election.  Ricardo Young World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 06####Why did Putin win?########Russia saw the presidential elections come to a close and it’s been announced that Vladimir Putin is the next president of the Russian Federation. What became the reason of so many people vote for Mr. Putin?Russia saw the presidential elections come to a close and it’s been announced that Vladimir Putin is the next president of the Russian Federation. What became the reason of so many people vote for Mr. Putin? We are joined on the line to talk about this with Mikhail Margelov, the Current Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Federation Council of Russia.  Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 06####Putin orders to probe alleged election fraud########Russian PM Vladimir Putin, the winner of the recent presidential race, has ordered a thorough inquiry into all cases of alleged election fraud. On Tuesday, Vladimir Putin visited the situational center “Elections-2012” and talked to monitors from “For Fair Elections” and “Citizens for Fair Elections” movements. “There were violations, of course.Russian PM Vladimir Putin, the winner of the recent presidential race, has ordered a thorough inquiry into all cases of alleged election fraud. On Tuesday, Vladimir Putin visited the situational center “Elections-2012” and talked to monitors from “For Fair Elections” and “Citizens for Fair Elections” movements. “There were violations, of course. All of them must be revealed and abolished,” Putin told young lawyers who came to the center. The premier believes that popular outrage wasn’t triggered by the vote results, calling it “an element of the political struggle.” IF Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 06####Presidential elections over in Russia########Hello my friends! This is Konstantin Kosachev and my weekly program from Moscow, Russia. And as always we discuss in this studio of the Voice of Russia the most interesting events which took place inside and outside of Russia during the last week, the events which have drawn the greatest attention and different comments.Hello my friends! This is Konstantin Kosachev and my weekly program from Moscow, Russia. And as always we discuss in this studio of the Voice of Russia the most interesting events which took place inside and outside of Russia during the last week, the events which have drawn the greatest attention and different comments. And sometimes in my program we disagree with these comments which have been spelled out for the simple reason that in many cases what we hear, see and feel inside of Russia is much, much more competent and secure in terms of credibility than any other estimations which come from outside of Russia. Today definitely we have only one topic to discuss and this is the presidential elections which are finally over and the result of which is clear and obvious – we will not need the second round. We have the winner in the first round and this is Mr. Vladimir Putin who is going to be the next President of Russia, at least the Chairman of the Russian Electoral Committee Mr. Churov has already officially announced and confirmed this result though the counting is not formally finalized. The rest of the votes which are yet uncounted is something like 1 – 2% and it definitely does not make any difference when the winner has much more percents than the other candidates taken together. So, the result definitely to stay and Russia does have the new President and the inauguration will take place in two months, on the 7th of May this year according to the Russian legislation. The date of the inauguration is not determined by the elected President, it is not determined by the going President, it is determined by the Russian law which says that the date for the inauguration is to be set not earlier than the period of four years for the going President is over, and the period of Mr. Medvedev, his four years in power, will expire exactly on the 7th of May. So, this is the date which is determined by the Russian legislation. Today I do not have an interlocutor in my studio and this is unfortunately for the simple reason that I invited a very important person Mdm. Tagliavini to discuss the results of the elections to this studio. She is the Head of the International Observation Mission representing the so called ODIR – the bureau for democratic institutions and human rights of the OSCE - the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Unfortunately Mdm. Tagliavini could not come to our studio today and I do not blame her for that because I understand perfectly well how hard it is for the international observers to find some spare time for any interview in one day period after the elections are over. So, I will have to make my own comments during this program and I have the preliminary report which was published just two hours ago on the half of the international observation team which includes not just ODIR, but also observers from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And this text has been issued and I believe certain changes may take place in the future because this report again in a preliminary one and it may be somehow changed by the politicians in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe later on. But this will take place later and now we have this document to make some comments on it. And I believe that it may be interesting to analyze it and I personally, as a Russian politician and a citizen of Russia who participated in these elections as a voter, I’m interested to see where I can agree with the criticism or with some positive estimations of our elections and where I can disagree with them. So, I will start doing my analysis of this text. According to the text “all the candidates of the yesterday’s presidential elections in Russian Federation were able to campaign unhindered, the conditions were clearly secured in favour of one of the contestants.” That is the first message in this report and I believe it does contain both good and bad news. The good news is that the campaign was run unhindered and the bad news is that according to this report some candidates had certain advantages. And the advantages of which the report speaks about were just for one candidate – the Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. The observers noted that all the candidates had access to the media but the Prime Minister was given a clear advantage over his competitors in terms of media presentations.  And with this I can agree just partially. On the one hand yes, Mr. Putin was presented, at least on the state owned mass media like our TV channels and radio stations, more frequently than the other candidates. But the reason was quite simple – Mr. Putin during his election campaign continued to act as the Prime Minister of Russia, he did not take any vacation and there were certain exceptions but not during the whole campaign and in general he continued to act as the Prime Minister of Russia which definitely means that some parts of his activities which are not related to the election campaign should be anyhow covered by the mass media. So, this criticism on my view is unfair as long as we take into account the other part of it  - namely the Russian legislation which prescribes very exactly how much time is to be spend by each candidate in the mass media as a candidate. And in that sense I believe that Mr. Putin as a candidate received exactly the same media coverage as all the other candidates. Thinking about that situation, because it may be repeated in the future when one of the candidates taking the official position as the President or the Prime Minister, or the Speaker, or the Head of the Supreme Court, or any other position – a position which for natural reasons is covered by the mass media attention - I believe that we need to have further clarification of our legislation on that question. But I’m not sure whether the other countries have managed to find a good workable solutions for that dilemma because to demand from a candidate in official position to take a vacation during the election campaign may probably be one of the solutions, but I’m not sure whether this demand exists in the other countries’ legislation for elections, but I’m sure that this situation definitely needs further analysis in order to avoid an impression that this official position of a certain candidate is being used or even abused in his electoral interests. And I agree that this should be a matter for the further considerations and of course discussions in the Russian Parliament. Going on with the assessments done by the international observers “In addition,” – it is said in this preliminary report – “the state resources at the regional level were also mobilized in the support of one candidate and the overall restrictive candidate registration requirements limited genuine competition.” Speaking about the genuine competition I would not dwell upon the regional media resources because frankly speaking I’m not aware of that. As the member of the Russian Parliament, I of course do have my constituency, I have been in my constituency during this election campaign and frankly speaking I have not noticed any advantages or disadvantages for this or that candidate in my constituency in the mass media. But again I can not speak for the whole country and we have to check additionally what observations were made by the international mission on that. Speaking about the registration requirements and genuine on not genuine competition – we had five candidates competing with each other. We also had three or four more who tried to be registered but failed. And in each case the explanation for that was never political, it was not about trying to kick somebody out of the campaign for the simple reason that the ruling authorities would not like his political platform or something like that. The registration has certain requirements and these requirements were completely the same for all the candidates with the only difference - the candidates who were nominated by the political party did not need to collect the signatures while the candidates which were theoretically nominated by the parties and the self-nominated candidates had to collect these signatures in case their political parties or themselves were not members of the Parliament of the Russian Federation. And these requirements are really hard. I believe that the requirement to collect 2 million signatures is extremely difficult for many and that’s why the President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev initiated the recent reform which has been presented to the state Duma and which has already been approved in the first reading by the Russian Parliament. I has been approved to change this regulation and to make the existing requirements on the registration of the candidates much milder. So, this has been done and I believe that the criticism in the report on this may be acknowledged as fair and is to be accepted. We have actually accepted it in the previous weeks by voting for the coming reform. I go on reading the report “The election campaign was characterized by continuing and generally unobstructed large scale protests over the allegations of fraud during the December 2011 Duma elections. The demands for honest elections by the citizens and candidates led to greater civic involvement in observation efforts to enhance the integrity of the process.” It is absolutely good to note that the public atmosphere in Russia was definitely completely different during the presidential election campaign. And I don’t believe that heated emotions and hard feelings which accompanied this campaign are specifically unique for Russia of today. I have followed many other election campaigns and I know for sure that these demonstrations and protests, these emotions are rather typical in very many cases. In the case of Russia they have not disturbed the campaign, at least until now. We do not know how these protest activities will continue to develop and I cannot exclude that certain politicians in Russia would prefer not to acknowledge the results of these elections and will continue to ask people to go out to the streets and protest. But again, this is their right not to accept the result of these elections and to disagree with the results with the only limit – threes feelings cannot take the format of an ultimatum like either you acknowledge that we are right or you have to cancel the election results and conduct the next round and so on and so forth. This is unacceptable for me for the simple reason that these elections were legitimate, they were conducted according to the existing legislation of Russia and by that they are to be acknowledged both by the participants inside of Russia and by the observers inside and outside Russia. I go on “This election showed a clear winner with an absolute majority avoiding the second round, however the voters’ choice was limited, the electoral competition lacked fairness and impartial referee was missing.” It is a little bit unclear what is meant by the “impartial referee”, probably this is about the Central Electorate Committee, but frankly speaking I cannot recall any sign of the Central Electoral Committee being partial and acting in favour of the certain candidate. Yes, certain signs of it were much more visible and touchable during the previous parliamentary campaign and do share certain part of criticism which was aimed towards the Central Electoral Committee but this time, during the presidential election I frankly cannot see any reason for that criticism. I continue to read “Due to increase in citizens’ awareness and involvement the elections were more lively, better managed and more seriously observed whereas structural improvements in electoral regulation have been proposed to the Parliament but not yet passed.” This is exactly what I was speaking about and I believe that this comment is absolutely fair and does have a positive drive. “There were serious problems from the very start of these elections. The point of elections is that the outcome should be uncertain and this was not the case in Russia.” For me this is the major point of disagreement with the preliminary report of the observers. I would like to repeat – the point of elections is that the outcome should be uncertain – I cannot agree with that. Yes, the more uncertain the result is, the more spectacular, the more interesting the election campaign is. But if the outcome is predictable, if there is a clear leader in the campaign in Russia or elsewhere in the world, it definitely does not mean that the elections were unfair. It means that one candidate was clearly stronger than the other ones and in the case of the Russian election campaign Mr. Putin definitely enjoyed much better support from the voters than any other candidate. So, this is something I cannot accept and this is something I definitely criticize in the report by the observers. I’m going on and this is the last part of the report “In this election candidates could not compete on an equal footing although the authorities made some efforts to improve transparency. There remained wide mistrust in the integrity of the election process. As the first step all the allegations of electoral violations need to be thoroughly investigated.” Yes, they definitely need to be thoroughly investigated and they will be and this time we have much, much better conditions for these investigations for the simple reason that the Russian authorities, the Central Electoral Committee were much better prepared for this type of accusations and I mean the web-cameras. This is a unique technology which was used in Russia nation wide and I believe for the first time ever in the history. Transparent ballot boxes and many other innovations were used. For me these efforts were taken by the Central Electorate Committee not for the reason they wanted to prevent falsifications. The major intention was to prevent falsification of falsification meaning allegations about falsifications which should have taken place but nobody knows whether they were true or false. And this time each time when any of the candidates, any of the observers would present any allegations about frauds and any other violations of the existing legislation it has to be checked and it will be checked for the simple reason that it is technically possible. And for me this is again the good news. I know that the Central Electoral Committee received something like 400 official claims from different parts of the country, from different participants of these elections but as far as I understand none or at least very few of these claims were serious enough to put a question mark on the credibility of the voting process and the voting results in the national wide scale. I know that some results in some cases were canceled. There are two or three examples of that kind but it is definitely nothing compared with more than 90 000 polling stations in Russia. So, I believe that the results which were not acknowledged in certain cases by the Central Electoral Committee and the absence of the voting  results from these polling stations can definitely not affect the outcome of the elections. Finalizing my analysis I believe that there are some fair comments in this report and there are some unfair but what is more important for me, and now I speak not just as a Russian voter but also as the Russian politician, for me it is that there are no question marks about the legitimacy of the presidential elections in Russia in this report which means that the presidential elections in Russia have been acknowledged, at least by the team of the international observers. And it means that Russia will continue to have legal power, to have a legal president which cannot be questioned by anybody inside or outside of Russia and for me this is the best possible result of the elections for Russia and definitely for the whole of the world because I believe that the world surely needs Russia which is democratic, stable and predictable. And definitely Mr. Putin as the next President of Russia will keep the continuity in the Russian foreign policy, domestic policy and everyone can be sure about that. Thank you very much for being with me this time alone. I hope that I will be able to meet you next week already in my new capacity as I have been nominated as the Head of the Federal Agency for International Humanitarian Cooperation and I hope that I will be able to join you again speaking about soft power issues, the image of Russia, cultural, educational and other types of cooperation where Russia is not just an interesting but I believe also a desirable partner for many countries in the world. Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 06####2012 election: why Russians voted the way they did########According to preliminary data from Russia’s Central Election Commission, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has scored 63,75According to preliminary data from Russia’s Central Election Commission, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has scored 63,75% of the vote at the March 4 presidential election, Gennady Zyuganov – 17,19%. Mikhail Prokhorov – 7.82%, Vladimir Zhirinovsky – 6.23% and Sergey Mironov – 3.85%. Experts were surprised by such a huge gap between Putin’s and Zyuganov’s results and with the third place of the election first-timer, tycoon Prokhorov.  Russian analysts and experts explained to VoR the reasons for Putin’s victory. The political old-timers seem to be getting off the track. The fifth presidential race of the Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky was a failure. His usual third place was taken by debutant Prokhorov. The chief communist Zyuganov had his fourth attempt but his rating hasn’t exceeded 17% for a long time. Experts believe that these two parties should focus on restructuring and putting forward new leaders, who would attempt to run again in 6 years. They should also improve their campaigning, believes political analyst Leonid Polyakov: "Putin had a very original campaign this year. It was not announced at once in contrast to the other candidates, but published in the form of articles once a week. Each article dealt with a specific aspect of his program- the issue of nationality, economic or social policy, the political system, foreign relations. It was a real dialogue with the voters. People could read the articles and ponder over the program. Such a respectful form to address voters had its results even though Putin refused to take part in the debates personally." Zhirinovsky’s campaign was absolutely the opposite, says expert from the Institute for National Strategic Studies Pavel Svyatenkov. On the whole, it was rather negative: "His TV-ad with a donkey and his motto: Choose Zhirinovsky or Things will get Worsewere a failure. His campaign was careless and Zhirinovsky seems to be tired of politics." Prokhorov’s third place was a surprise, except for his victory in London where 57, 52% of Russian residents in the UK voted for him. In Moscow and St.Pete the tycoon also did well, scoring 20 and 15%, says Leonid Polyakov: "People voted for him as he is new to politics and is a victim of the regime - last year he was deprived of his party. Even though Russians don’t trust oligarchs at all, a new class of angry voters chose Prokhorov as the only candidate who could back their interests and opinions." Moscow was the only Russian region where Putin got less than 50% of votes (46%). He had  the highest results in the Caucasus: in Chechnya, Dagestan and Ingushetia where over 90% voted for the Prime Minister, namely 99,8% in Chechnya. Svetlana Andreyeva Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 06####Presidential elections over in Russia########Hello my friends! This is Konstantin Kosachev and my weekly program from Moscow, Russia. And as always we discuss in this studio of the Voice of Russia the most interesting events which took place inside and outside of Russia during the last week, the events which have drawn the greatest attention and different comments.Hello my friends! This is Konstantin Kosachev and my weekly program from Moscow, Russia. And as always we discuss in this studio of the Voice of Russia the most interesting events which took place inside and outside of Russia during the last week, the events which have drawn the greatest attention and different comments. And sometimes in my program we disagree with these comments which have been spelled out for the simple reason that in many cases what we hear, see and feel inside of Russia is much, much more competent and secure in terms of credibility than any other estimations which come from outside of Russia. Today definitely we have only one topic to discuss and this is the presidential elections which are finally over and the result of which is clear and obvious – we will not need the second round. We have the winner in the first round and this is Mr. Vladimir Putin who is going to be the next President of Russia, at least the Chairman of the Russian Electoral Committee Mr. Churov has already officially announced and confirmed this result though the counting is not formally finalized. The rest of the votes which are yet uncounted is something like 1 – 2% and it definitely does not make any difference when the winner has much more percents than the other candidates taken together. So, the result definitely to stay and Russia does have the new President and the inauguration will take place in two months, on the 7th of May this year according to the Russian legislation. The date of the inauguration is not determined by the elected President, it is not determined by the going President, it is determined by the Russian law which says that the date for the inauguration is to be set not earlier than the period of four years for the going President is over, and the period of Mr. Medvedev, his four years in power, will expire exactly on the 7th of May. So, this is the date which is determined by the Russian legislation. Today I do not have an interlocutor in my studio and this is unfortunately for the simple reason that I invited a very important person Mdm. Tagliavini to discuss the results of the elections to this studio. She is the Head of the International Observation Mission representing the so called ODIR – the bureau for democratic institutions and human rights of the OSCE - the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Unfortunately Mdm. Tagliavini could not come to our studio today and I do not blame her for that because I understand perfectly well how hard it is for the international observers to find some spare time for any interview in one day period after the elections are over. So, I will have to make my own comments during this program and I have the preliminary report which was published just two hours ago on the half of the international observation team which includes not just ODIR, but also observers from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And this text has been issued and I believe certain changes may take place in the future because this report again in a preliminary one and it may be somehow changed by the politicians in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe later on. But this will take place later and now we have this document to make some comments on it. And I believe that it may be interesting to analyze it and I personally, as a Russian politician and a citizen of Russia who participated in these elections as a voter, I’m interested to see where I can agree with the criticism or with some positive estimations of our elections and where I can disagree with them. So, I will start doing my analysis of this text. According to the text “all the candidates of the yesterday’s presidential elections in Russian Federation were able to campaign unhindered, the conditions were clearly secured in favour of one of the contestants.” That is the first message in this report and I believe it does contain both good and bad news. The good news is that the campaign was run unhindered and the bad news is that according to this report some candidates had certain advantages. And the advantages of which the report speaks about were just for one candidate – the Prime Minister Vladimir Putin. The observers noted that all the candidates had access to the media but the Prime Minister was given a clear advantage over his competitors in terms of media presentations.  And with this I can agree just partially. On the one hand yes, Mr. Putin was presented, at least on the state owned mass media like our TV channels and radio stations, more frequently than the other candidates. But the reason was quite simple – Mr. Putin during his election campaign continued to act as the Prime Minister of Russia, he did not take any vacation and there were certain exceptions but not during the whole campaign and in general he continued to act as the Prime Minister of Russia which definitely means that some parts of his activities which are not related to the election campaign should be anyhow covered by the mass media. So, this criticism on my view is unfair as long as we take into account the other part of it  - namely the Russian legislation which prescribes very exactly how much time is to be spend by each candidate in the mass media as a candidate. And in that sense I believe that Mr. Putin as a candidate received exactly the same media coverage as all the other candidates. Thinking about that situation, because it may be repeated in the future when one of the candidates taking the official position as the President or the Prime Minister, or the Speaker, or the Head of the Supreme Court, or any other position – a position which for natural reasons is covered by the mass media attention - I believe that we need to have further clarification of our legislation on that question. But I’m not sure whether the other countries have managed to find a good workable solutions for that dilemma because to demand from a candidate in official position to take a vacation during the election campaign may probably be one of the solutions, but I’m not sure whether this demand exists in the other countries’ legislation for elections, but I’m sure that this situation definitely needs further analysis in order to avoid an impression that this official position of a certain candidate is being used or even abused in his electoral interests. And I agree that this should be a matter for the further considerations and of course discussions in the Russian Parliament. Going on with the assessments done by the international observers “In addition,” – it is said in this preliminary report – “the state resources at the regional level were also mobilized in the support of one candidate and the overall restrictive candidate registration requirements limited genuine competition.” Speaking about the genuine competition I would not dwell upon the regional media resources because frankly speaking I’m not aware of that. As the member of the Russian Parliament, I of course do have my constituency, I have been in my constituency during this election campaign and frankly speaking I have not noticed any advantages or disadvantages for this or that candidate in my constituency in the mass media. But again I can not speak for the whole country and we have to check additionally what observations were made by the international mission on that. Speaking about the registration requirements and genuine on not genuine competition – we had five candidates competing with each other. We also had three or four more who tried to be registered but failed. And in each case the explanation for that was never political, it was not about trying to kick somebody out of the campaign for the simple reason that the ruling authorities would not like his political platform or something like that. The registration has certain requirements and these requirements were completely the same for all the candidates with the only difference - the candidates who were nominated by the political party did not need to collect the signatures while the candidates which were theoretically nominated by the parties and the self-nominated candidates had to collect these signatures in case their political parties or themselves were not members of the Parliament of the Russian Federation. And these requirements are really hard. I believe that the requirement to collect 2 million signatures is extremely difficult for many and that’s why the President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev initiated the recent reform which has been presented to the state Duma and which has already been approved in the first reading by the Russian Parliament. I has been approved to change this regulation and to make the existing requirements on the registration of the candidates much milder. So, this has been done and I believe that the criticism in the report on this may be acknowledged as fair and is to be accepted. We have actually accepted it in the previous weeks by voting for the coming reform. I go on reading the report “The election campaign was characterized by continuing and generally unobstructed large scale protests over the allegations of fraud during the December 2011 Duma elections. The demands for honest elections by the citizens and candidates led to greater civic involvement in observation efforts to enhance the integrity of the process.” It is absolutely good to note that the public atmosphere in Russia was definitely completely different during the presidential election campaign. And I don’t believe that heated emotions and hard feelings which accompanied this campaign are specifically unique for Russia of today. I have followed many other election campaigns and I know for sure that these demonstrations and protests, these emotions are rather typical in very many cases. In the case of Russia they have not disturbed the campaign, at least until now. We do not know how these protest activities will continue to develop and I cannot exclude that certain politicians in Russia would prefer not to acknowledge the results of these elections and will continue to ask people to go out to the streets and protest. But again, this is their right not to accept the result of these elections and to disagree with the results with the only limit – threes feelings cannot take the format of an ultimatum like either you acknowledge that we are right or you have to cancel the election results and conduct the next round and so on and so forth. This is unacceptable for me for the simple reason that these elections were legitimate, they were conducted according to the existing legislation of Russia and by that they are to be acknowledged both by the participants inside of Russia and by the observers inside and outside Russia. I go on “This election showed a clear winner with an absolute majority avoiding the second round, however the voters’ choice was limited, the electoral competition lacked fairness and impartial referee was missing.” It is a little bit unclear what is meant by the “impartial referee”, probably this is about the Central Electorate Committee, but frankly speaking I cannot recall any sign of the Central Electoral Committee being partial and acting in favour of the certain candidate. Yes, certain signs of it were much more visible and touchable during the previous parliamentary campaign and do share certain part of criticism which was aimed towards the Central Electoral Committee but this time, during the presidential election I frankly cannot see any reason for that criticism. I continue to read “Due to increase in citizens’ awareness and involvement the elections were more lively, better managed and more seriously observed whereas structural improvements in electoral regulation have been proposed to the Parliament but not yet passed.” This is exactly what I was speaking about and I believe that this comment is absolutely fair and does have a positive drive. “There were serious problems from the very start of these elections. The point of elections is that the outcome should be uncertain and this was not the case in Russia.” For me this is the major point of disagreement with the preliminary report of the observers. I would like to repeat – the point of elections is that the outcome should be uncertain – I cannot agree with that. Yes, the more uncertain the result is, the more spectacular, the more interesting the election campaign is. But if the outcome is predictable, if there is a clear leader in the campaign in Russia or elsewhere in the world, it definitely does not mean that the elections were unfair. It means that one candidate was clearly stronger than the other ones and in the case of the Russian election campaign Mr. Putin definitely enjoyed much better support from the voters than any other candidate. So, this is something I cannot accept and this is something I definitely criticize in the report by the observers. I’m going on and this is the last part of the report “In this election candidates could not compete on an equal footing although the authorities made some efforts to improve transparency. There remained wide mistrust in the integrity of the election process. As the first step all the allegations of electoral violations need to be thoroughly investigated.” Yes, they definitely need to be thoroughly investigated and they will be and this time we have much, much better conditions for these investigations for the simple reason that the Russian authorities, the Central Electoral Committee were much better prepared for this type of accusations and I mean the web-cameras. This is a unique technology which was used in Russia nation wide and I believe for the first time ever in the history. Transparent ballot boxes and many other innovations were used. For me these efforts were taken by the Central Electorate Committee not for the reason they wanted to prevent falsifications. The major intention was to prevent falsification of falsification meaning allegations about falsifications which should have taken place but nobody knows whether they were true or false. And this time each time when any of the candidates, any of the observers would present any allegations about frauds and any other violations of the existing legislation it has to be checked and it will be checked for the simple reason that it is technically possible. And for me this is again the good news. I know that the Central Electoral Committee received something like 400 official claims from different parts of the country, from different participants of these elections but as far as I understand none or at least very few of these claims were serious enough to put a question mark on the credibility of the voting process and the voting results in the national wide scale. I know that some results in some cases were canceled. There are two or three examples of that kind but it is definitely nothing compared with more than 90 000 polling stations in Russia. So, I believe that the results which were not acknowledged in certain cases by the Central Electoral Committee and the absence of the voting  results from these polling stations can definitely not affect the outcome of the elections. Finalizing my analysis I believe that there are some fair comments in this report and there are some unfair but what is more important for me, and now I speak not just as a Russian voter but also as the Russian politician, for me it is that there are no question marks about the legitimacy of the presidential elections in Russia in this report which means that the presidential elections in Russia have been acknowledged, at least by the team of the international observers. And it means that Russia will continue to have legal power, to have a legal president which cannot be questioned by anybody inside or outside of Russia and for me this is the best possible result of the elections for Russia and definitely for the whole of the world because I believe that the world surely needs Russia which is democratic, stable and predictable. And definitely Mr. Putin as the next President of Russia will keep the continuity in the Russian foreign policy, domestic policy and everyone can be sure about that. Thank you very much for being with me this time alone. I hope that I will be able to meet you next week already in my new capacity as I have been nominated as the Head of the Federal Agency for International Humanitarian Cooperation and I hope that I will be able to join you again speaking about soft power issues, the image of Russia, cultural, educational and other types of cooperation where Russia is not just an interesting but I believe also a desirable partner for many countries in the world. Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 06####Violations at the Presidential election must be checked – Putin########Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the winner of the presidential election 2012, according to preliminary data of the Central Election Commission, hopes for a thorough check of the violations, that happened during the election campaign.Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, the winner of the presidential election 2012, according to preliminary data of the Central Election Commission, hopes for a thorough check of the violations, that happened during the election campaign. On Tuesday Russian Prime Minister visited the situational center «Elections 2012» at the  Moscow State Law Academy to discuss  possible election violations with  representatives of the «Fair elections» group and the participants of the project «Citizens for Fair Elections». "Violations have undoubtedly taken place  We need to identify them, clear them up and make everything more transparent. The control and the monitoring of the situation is crucial further violations should not happen", Prime Minister said.     He believes that all complaints should be checked and sent for further proceedings to the appropriate authorities. Young people, working for the Center, drew Prime Minister’s attention to the fact that all the information they received was not on the actual violations, but about complaints of supposed violations, many of which haven't been  officially confirmed. "There have been a lot of situations that allegedly had violations. However, we checked the polling station on-line and saw that no violations took place", a Moscow State Academy of Law student told the Russian Prime Minister.    According to her, the majority of reports on violations were received in the first half of the day, then their number went down. All in all, 4500 violation reports have been received by the Center during the pre-election and election period. The Situational Center representatives promised to compile all the information – complaints, their inspection results, and then send a report to the elected President for  further investigation. RIA  Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 06####St. Petersburg police against unauthorized rally########The St. Isaac's Square in front of the city parliament on Tuesday night tied up with considerable forces and police riots, reports "Interfax" from the scene. Police cars parked in all the corners of the square. On the square there are a lot of huge trucks, buses for people, who are going to be arrested, and patrol cars.The St. Isaac's Square in front of the city parliament on Tuesday night tied up with considerable forces and police riots, reports "Interfax" from the scene. Police cars parked in all the corners of the square. On the square there are a lot of huge trucks, buses for people, who are going to be arrested, and patrol cars. There are patrol officers on the square and on the streets nearby. Like on the day before, the entrance to the city's parliament is closed with metal fences. And the helicopter’s flying above. Oppositionists showed up on the Square. They are peaceful and not behaving provocatively. From time to time police arresting some of them but nobody resisting. It can be called “friendly”arrests, said the correspondent. Some walking by painter drew crowd’s attention.  People gathered around him while he was showing his painting. After he showed it to everyone he’s left.    Earlier on Tuesday, representatives of the opposition in St. Petersburg said that they are having plans to hold rallies on St. Isaac's Square during the three days after the presidential election happened. (IF) Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 07####Putin orders to investigate all violations during elections########One day after he was elected Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, currently the prime minister, visited the information center called “Elections-2012” in the Moscow-based State Academy of Law.One day after he was elected Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, currently the prime minister, visited the information center called “Elections-2012” in the Moscow-based State Academy of Law. The center was created to monitor the presidential elections, because after the parliamentary elections in December, many people claimed that their results were falsified, and similar suspicions were expected to be expressed about the results of the presidential elections. In the center, Mr. Putin met with representatives of a monitoring group called “For Honest Elections” and of a project called “Citizens for Honest Elections.” “The dissatisfaction which certain political groups expressed before and after the elections, in fact, has little to do with the alleged falsifications,” Vladimir Putin is convinced. “Moreover, they have little to do with the elections in any way. By criticizing the authorities, these groups were just advertizing themselves, and nothing more.” Addressing those who monitored the elections, Mr. Putin said: “Thank you very much for your work! People have the right to be sure that the elections were honest and transparent. Only a state where the authorities’ actions are transparent for the people is a democratic and a strong state.” True, there were quite many complains that the elections’ organizers allegedly made various violations. However, as the staff of the “Elections-2012” center said to Mr. Putin, the majority of these complaints came in the beginning of the elections’ day. Complainants calmed down a little when they realized that the elections’ monitors immediately reacted to all their complaints. In total, in the two month before the elections and on the day of the elections itself, the center “Elections-2012” received 4,500 complaints about violations in the pre-elections campaigning or in the elections’ organization. The center’s workers assured Mr. Putin that they would check all these complaints and report to him about the results. Many of the complaints have already been checked – and didn’t prove out. After complaints about violations on this or that particular polling station appeared, the situation at these stations was closely watched by the monitors. Besides, copies of protocols of the election commissions were published on a website which had been especially created for that. About 70 mln Russians visited this website on the elections’ day. However, Vladimir Putin believes that, most likely, there still were some violations during the elections. “Most likely, some violations did take place,” he said. “They all must be investigated. People should be sure that the government is holding everything under control.” The only candidate for the presidency who, after the elections were over, claimed that their results were falsified was the leader of the Communist Party Gennady Zyuganov. However, the elections were monitored by representatives of various parties, including Communists, but none of the latter has complained of any falsifications during the elections. Mr. Zyuganov claimed that the results were falsified only the next day after the elections. “Mr. Zyuganov is probably just nervous that he didn’t win the elections,” Vladimir Putin says. In total, more than one third of the complaints which came to the center were about violations of the rules of election campaigning in the streets, and a little fewer – about violations of campaigning in mass media. 9% of the complaints were about putting pressure on voters, 6% - about the authorities creating better conditions for a certain candidate to win, and less than 1% - about bribing voters. There were several foreign observers in the center during the elections as well. However, the center’s workers said that there was no need for them to be present personally, as far as they had all the opportunities to monitor the elections online as well. Ilya Kharlamov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 07####Was Vladimir Putin’s victory fair?########Vladimir Putin had quite a big victory this past Sunday at the president reelections. But there are still those in Russia, especially in the Moscow and Saint-Petersburg areas who feel that he did not win fairly. Will the demonstrations continue and what effect will they really have on his leadership?Vladimir Putin had quite a big victory this past Sunday at the president reelections. But there are still those in Russia, especially in the Moscow and Saint-Petersburg areas who feel that he did not win fairly. Will the demonstrations continue and what effect will they really have on his leadership? We are joined to talk more on this with Steven Pifer, Senior Fellow of the Foreign Policy Center on the United States and Europe and Director of Arms Control Initiative for the Brookings Institute. Ricardo Young Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 07####Elections 2012: carte blanche to carry out reforms########Vladimir Putin has received carte blanche from the Russian society. The people of Russia would welcome the authorities’ steps to carry out radical reforms in the political and social spheres. And the winner of the presidential elections plans to do that in cooperation with the opposition, which is expected to pass from street rallies to normal political rivalry.Vladimir Putin has received carte blanche from the Russian society. The people of Russia would welcome the authorities’ steps to carry out radical reforms in the political and social spheres. And the winner of the presidential elections plans to do that in cooperation with the opposition, which is expected to pass from street rallies to normal political rivalry. Such is the opinion of the majority of analysts who are commenting on the convincing victory of Vladimir Putin in the presidential elections in Russia. Vladimir Putin is the visible leader of Russia who was elected by the majority of Russian citizens – statements to this effect have been made in world capitals. The leaders of major countries have congratulated Putin on his victory. The percentage of the votes gained by the Russian Prime Minister is not called into question either. Despite that, Washington has issued a call for conducting a careful investigation of all violations of the electoral legislation.   True, Russia’s non-systemic opposition was not puzzled over the unanimous recognition of the legitimacy of the latest elections.  A rally on Pushkin Square that was planned long before the voting day, should have taken place irrespective of the election results and weather conditions. The police said that about 15,000 people had taken part in the rally in the evening of March 5th . The protesters demanded early parliamentary and presidential elections, and also complex reforms. When the authorized meeting was over, its participants went home. However, the coordinator of Russia’s Left Front movement Sergei Udaltsov, blogger Alexei Navalny and dozens of their followers did not want to go away: they said that they were determined to begin an endless rally of protest and made an attempt to put up a tent in the centre of the fountain. The policemen had to oust the protesters from the square, and as a result, the opposition leaders spent the night at a police station.      The scenario of that meeting much resembled the opposition rallies of last December. And this is convincing evidence that street rallies as an expression of protest moods of certain layers of the Russian society are experiencing what could be termed a “genre crisis”, President of the Strategy 2020 Foundation Mikhail Remizov said. "Former subjects around which the opposition consolidated, including ones like fair elections are not as acute today as they were before. The season of election campaigns is also a thing of the past now. Today the opposition should aim at concrete things, including economic reforms and Russia’s foreign-policy course." The organization, which Mikhail Prokhorov, the only self-promoted candidate who took part in the latest elections, plans to set up may become one of the new parties. Analyzing his success, experts say that 8 per cent of the vote he gained in March 4 elections means that he “has made his way into the highest league of politics”.   By the way, Russia will see a large variety of parties as a result of current reforms that are being carried out by the government. We can say that the protest rallies of December-February have achieved their goal to a certain extent. The point is that the pre-election programme of Vladimir Putin contains some of the clauses that were offered by the opposition, continues Mikhail Remizov. "During the latest presidential campaign the favourite of the presidential race Vladimir Putin mentioned the changes in the social sphere, the fight against illegal migration, and anti-corruption sanitation of the state apparatus. He acted as a leader who took into account the demands of the opposition." Analysts say that on the one hand, the protest rallies produced an effect contrary to the one expected by the opposition . The electorate of the mainstream candidate became more consolidated, and his rating that grew fast ahead of the presidential elections offers proof. On the other hand, Putin’s readiness to support cardinal reforms in the country has also played its role. And now it’s high time that his deeds meet people’s trust. Political analysts are sure that changes are coming. The more so as the government is determined to cooperate constructively with the opposition. European experts, including the Director of the Finnish Russian Research Centre Markku Kivinen, say the same.   Meeting with his former rivals on March 5th, Vladimir Putin stressed that he is ready to cooperate with them. He urged his partners to begin creative work and to start searching for compromises and optimal decisions. Meanwhile, the reforms in Russia continue. The State Duma has already considered a package of bills in a first reading that are aimed at the improvement of the current political system. On March 5th, after the elections were over, President Medvedev said that the Constituent Assembly would convene soon. The point is that only the Constituent Assembly can come up with the initiative to reconsider constitutional clauses. And the readiness of the Russian government to do that offers proof that it is serious on that score. The reforms will not be reversed. Igor Siletsky Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 07####Anti-Putin opposition to rally at Novy Arbat########Russian leftist opposition leader Sergei Udaltsov announced that the Moscow City Hall had finally sanctioned the March10 opposition rally on the downtown Novy Arbat Street. “The For Fair Election rally, slated for March 10, is set to take place on Novy Arbat at 1 p.m.” Udaltsov said on Twitter.Russian leftist opposition leader Sergei Udaltsov announced that the Moscow City Hall had finally sanctioned the March10 opposition rally on the downtown Novy Arbat Street. “The For Fair Election rally, slated for March 10, is set to take place on Novy Arbat at 1 p.m.” Udaltsov said on Twitter. Some 50 thousand people are expected to participate in this anti-government demonstration. RIAN Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, rallies For Fair Elections, rallies in Moscow, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 07####Putin reiterates campaign pledges########Appearing before his Inner Cabinet in Moscow Wednesday, Prime Minister Putin re-iterated his presidential campaign pledges to offer financial incentives to increase the birthrate, pay living scholarships to students and substantially raise tutor wages – to reach the national average by September and twice the national average by 2018.Appearing before his Inner Cabinet in Moscow Wednesday, Prime Minister Putin re-iterated his presidential campaign pledges to offer financial incentives to increase the birthrate, pay living scholarships to students and substantially raise tutor wages – to reach the national average by September and twice the national average by 2018. He said implementing these pledges will cost the country 1.5% of its annual GDP. Putin also mentioned plans to shut down underperforming universities and colleges and bring the teacher-student ratio in the higher education system to 1:10. (TASS) Russia, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 07####Churov to soldier on########The Central Election Commission has voted 14 to 1 to reject an umpteenth motion by non-voting member Kirill Serdiukov to consider unseating its chief Vladimir Churov. The Commission gathered in Moscow Wednesday to tally the final results of Sunday’s presidential elections. (RIAN)The Central Election Commission has voted 14 to 1 to reject an umpteenth motion by non-voting member Kirill Serdiukov to consider unseating its chief Vladimir Churov. The Commission gathered in Moscow Wednesday to tally the final results of Sunday’s presidential elections. (RIAN) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Vladimir Churov, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 07####Putin named winner########The Central Election Commission has sealed the final results of Sunday’s presidential elections. The winner is Vladimir Putin, with 63.6% of the vote, or 45 million votes in absolute numbers.The Central Election Commission has sealed the final results of Sunday’s presidential elections. The winner is Vladimir Putin, with 63.6% of the vote, or 45 million votes in absolute numbers. The Communist Gennady Ziuganov got a little over 17%, the independent candidate, billionaire businessman Mikhail Prokhorov, about 8%, the Liberal Democrat Vladimir Zhirinovsky, a little over 6%, and leader of the Just Russia party Sergey Mironov, about 4%. The elections were held under the watchful eyes of 685 observers from 56 foreign countries. None reported irregularities in the voting process. All agreed that the elections were fair and complied with international norms. The inauguration of the president elect is scheduled for May 7th. Irregularities complaints ‘unfounded’ – Churov The Central Election Commission has found all the complaints about official compulsion to take out absentee voting papers ahead of the presidential elections completely unfounded. The announcement came from the Commission’s head Vladimir Churov. There were 178 complaints of this kind on the voting day, and 168 came on Monday and Tuesday. The numbers are approximately the same as in earlier national elections. Churov to soldier on The Central Election Commission has voted 14 to 1 to reject an umpteenth motion by non-voting member Kirill Serdiukov to consider unseating its chief Vladimir Churov. The Commission gathered in Moscow Wednesday to tally the final results of Sunday’s presidential elections. (IF, RIAN, INTERFAX) Russia, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 08####Putin to form govt soon########Russia’s newly elected President Vladimir Putin plans to launch consultations to form a new government, he stated on Thursday during a meeting with Dmitry Medvedev.He added that Russia’s president should give no special preferences to any political party and  work in the interests of all people. Economic growth – basis for social objectives – Putin Social objectives in Russia can be reached only on the basis of economic growth, Russia’s PM Vladimir Putin stated during his meeting with President Medvedev in Sochi. The country’s priority is to maintain the current macroeconomic rates and high growth pace reached despite the financial crisis. Putin also announced plans to launch consultations to form a new government. He added that Russia’s president should give no special preferences to any political party and  work in the interests of all people. Putin won the March 4 election in the first round scoring over 63%. Medvedev offers congratulations to Putin on his election Russian President Dmitry Medvedev has offered congratulations to Prime Minister Vladimir Putin on his election as Russia’s new President. Medvedev said in a conversation with Putin in Sochi that the election returns prove that Russians trust the government policy of recent years. According to Medvedev, an important objective today is to ensure security, defence capacity and the maintenance of relations with other countries at a proper level. Yesterday, the Central Elections Commission summed up the results of last Sunday’s presidential election and officially declared Vladimir Putin the winner. Putin polled 63.60% of the votes cast. (RIAN, TASS) Russia, government, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 08####Putin to form new government########On Thursday, Russia’s recently elected President Vladimir Putin started consultations on the formation of a new government. On the same day, Mr. Putin met with Russia’s incumbent President Dmitry Medvedev in Mr. Medvedev’s residence in the resort city of Sochi.On Thursday, Russia’s recently elected President Vladimir Putin started consultations on the formation of a new government. On the same day, Mr. Putin met with Russia’s incumbent President Dmitry Medvedev in Mr. Medvedev’s residence in the resort city of Sochi. One day ago, the Russian Central Electoral Committee summed up the results of the elections which took place on March 4. Mr. Putin won 63.6% of the votes. Mr. Medvedev congratulated Mr. Putin with a convincing victory and said: “The election’s results showed that most Russians trust the policy which Mr. Putin, who was the prime minister during my presidency, and I have been holding. One of the main tasks which we and Russia’s other top officials were and are trying to solve is to modernize the country’s economy, to make it less dependant on exporting raw materials. Other important tasks were to increase Russia’s defensive power – and, of course, to maintain friendly relations with other countries.” Vladimir Putin thanked Mr. Medvedev for congratulating him. He said that he was going to cooperate with Mr. Medvedev further, for Mr. Medvedev’s views on Russia’s tasks in home and foreign policy correspond very much with his own. “At present, the Russian economy is developing in a good tempo, despite the global economic crisis,” Vladimir Putin said, “and our task is not to weaken this tempo. You and I,” he addressed President Medvedev, “have already outlined the main tasks of Russia’s social policy, but to implement this program, Russia needs a rapidly developing economy. Yesterday, we held consultations about concrete steps to implement this program. Today, we are starting consultations about the composition of the new government.” On Wednesday, Mr. Putin told Mr. Medvedev that he would inform him about changes in the government within three days. The head of the Institute of National Strategy Nikita Krichevsky is trying to explain why Mr. Putin is so hurrying to hold these consultations: “I won’t call this hurry unnecessary haste,” he says. “Mr. Putin’s inauguration as president is planned for May 7. According to a tradition, the new president must present the new cabinet to the parliament for approving or disapproving right after his inauguration. It was so when Dmitry Medvdedev became president 4 years ago, and this tradition will most likely be observed now as well.” However, formalities may slow down the government’s work. The old government will still remain in force till May 7, and it would take the new government some time to start working to the full extent of its power. So, it was only logical for Mr. Putin and Mr. Medvedev to start preparations for the work of the new government right now, in order not to hamper the new government’s work. Konstantin Garibov, Grigory Shabanov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, government, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 10####Russia after the elections: time to get down to work########Russia’s Central Electoral Commission has released the official results of the March 4th presidential vote. The ballots were counted in the shortest period of time on record: three days after the elections, on March 7th, it announced that Vladimir Putin had been elected for a six-year term, having secured the support of nearly 64% of the votes.Russia’s Central Electoral Commission has released the official results of the March 4th presidential vote. The ballots were counted in the shortest period of time on record: three days after the elections, on March 7th, it announced that Vladimir Putin had been elected for a six-year term, having secured the support of nearly 64% of the votes. The Voice of Russia’s Andrei Smirnov reports. On Monday, Putin’s supporters packed the central Manezh Square to celebrate his victory. More than a thousand people greeted him as he mounted the podium to thank them for their support. Putin’s campaign headquarters where he went after the rally had not expected that the percentage of votes in his favour would exceed 58 percent. Nevertheless, the election results demonstrated that a considerable part of the Russian society trusts Putin to steer the country to prosperity and believes that he will live up to these expectations. This is what Mr Putin said as he addressed his supporters shortly after the voting: "Dear friends! I’d like to thank you for your efforts in ensuring the success of my election campaign. I must now take action on what I have promised to do for Russia and its people. Every single point in my manifesto is implementable and I’ll see them all through." As with any elections in any country, a number of irregularities were reported during the recent presidential vote in Russia as well. The greatest number of these irregularities was committed by supporters of Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov. Liberal Democratic Party leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky was second on the list, and A Just Russia leader Sergei Mironov was third. About 4% of all the violations were attributed to supporters of Vladimir Putin and Mikhail Prokhorov. Even though it had become clear before the closure of the last polling station that such a small percentage of irregularities made no difference to the overall election outcome, Zyuganov’s supporters quickly declared that they did not recognize the results of the vote. Just like Putin’s supporters, international observers did not agree with claims of “widespread electoral fraud” made by Zyuganov's supporters.  They were also impressed with the fact that polling stations were fitted out with webcams and suggested that this practice could be used by many western countries as well as the EU as a whole. European Parliament member Bela Kovacs, who monitored the elections from Hungary, comments. "Webcameras are helpful in ensuring a more transparent electoral process. They help promote open, fair elections. As a member of the European Parliament, I will advise my colleagues to adopt this technology for the 2014 parliamentary elections." Mr Putin’s victory has been acknowledged all over the world. Many foreign leaders, who congratulated him on his electoral success, described him as an undisputable leader elected by a majority. Even though some politicians in Washington called for a thorough inquiry into the allegations of vote-rigging voiced by some forces, the overwhelming number of votes in favor of Putin speak for themselves. These reports, however, have left the opposition leaders undaunted. The rally on Pushkin Square, which had been announced long before the voting, gathered about 15,000 people. They called for early parliamentary and presidential elections and for sweeping reforms. The organizers of the protests, who included leader of the Left Front Movement Sergei Udaltsov, blogger Alexei Navalny and several dozen supporters, were about to put up a tent and call an open-ended action after the rally. However, they had no permission from the city authorities for this kind of campaign and had to be edged out by the police. President of the Strategy 2020 Foundation Mikhail Remizov believes that street rallies are no longer relevant and that the rally on Pushkin Square was held in exactly the same manner as the previous protests organized by the opposition. "Once the election season is over, the issue of fair elections which used to consolidate the opposition is no longer of any relevance. From now on, the opposition should be campaigning against concrete policies, such as economic reforms, or foreign policy strategy. They are now unlikely to gather large numbers of supporters for street rallies. Opposition members should reorganize their movement to create new parties which will take part in regional, governor and federal elections. This is going to be painful because it is bound to split the opposition forces." One of the new parties could be set up by independent candidate Mikhail Prokhorov, who came third in the election. Prokhorov has the support of nearly 8 percent of the voters which experts say puts him in the “top political league”. Nevertheless, analysts have doubts about the prospects for this potential party. Prokhorov’s election program was “rightly positioned” compared to his opponents. A right-wing party is likely to become just one of many similar parties which are bound to spring up all over the country. The recent protest rallies had the opposite effect to the one the opposition had counted on. Putin’s supporters have in fact become even more united while his ratings went even higher in the weeks before the vote. Putin’s readiness to carry out sweeping reforms also produced a favorable impact. Pavel Salin of the Political Studies Center, comments. "On March 4th, Russian society expressed a vote of confidence in the government. It gave Putin the green light to carry out reforms. The elections became a smashing success for Putin. He will now have to “convert” his high credibility ratings into concrete policies." Analysts are confident that Russia is in for a change. The government is prepared for a constructive partnership with the opposition. This was restated by Mr Putin in his meeting with his former contenders on March 5th. He stressed that each of the former presidential hopefuls had large groups of supporters behind him so he urged them all to embark on a joint quest for a compromise. Andrei Smirnov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian presidential election 2012, Elections 2012. Commentary, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 12####Prospects for Russia-U.S. relations after Putin taking power########Vladimir Putin the official winner of the presidential elections in Russia will occupy the position of the president in May 2012. What will Putin’s presidency bring to the U.S.-Russia tense relations?Vladimir Putin the official winner of the presidential elections in Russia will occupy the position of the president in May 2012. What will Putin’s presidency bring to the U.S.-Russia tense relations? We will discuss this and other issues regarding future prospects for Russia and the United States with Sergei Oznobishchev, Director of the Independent Institute of Strategic Assessment.   Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Russian-US relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 12####Opposition leaders share plans for the future########Russia has elected its new leader. The outgoing Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has won the race with 63.6% of the vote. Like after the parliamentary election in December, 2011, the March 4 presidential vote was followed by numerous rallies and protest campaigns staged by members of the so-called ‘non-systemic’ opposition as well as pro-Putin supporters.Russia has elected its new leader. The outgoing Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has won the race with 63.6% of the vote. Like after the parliamentary election in December, 2011, the March 4 presidential vote was followed by numerous rallies and protest campaigns staged by members of the so-called ‘non-systemic’ opposition as well as pro-Putin supporters. The latest rally on March 10 did not, however, attract even half of those who had signed up for it on social networking sites. The opposition leaders have not yet managed to come up with the clear alternative to the ruling regime.  Russia`s Left Front leader Sergey Udaltsov sounds very determined about further protests. He shared his plans with the VoR: "Russia is living through a crisis of political legitimacy. So we have agreed to continue our protest campaigns but under a different motto: “For fair legitimate power”. We are planning to stage a million-strong marchin Moscow, a week beforePutin’s inauguration. This could even be an indefinite campaign, but everything should be within the law." Co-chairman of the unregistered PARNAS party Mikhail Kasyanov sounds determined, too: "Reforms should be real, not fake. It means that political parties must work the way they are meant to, and that there should be direct elections of governors and fair parliamentary and presidential elections. Protests will continue. Pro-democratic parties will likely build a coalition. We will demand new parliamentary elections." Russian experts say the opposition leaders are at odds about further protesting. It is evident that anarchists, nationalists, liberals and communists have different goals. So, opposition circles are very likely to split in separate groups, with not everyone there being ready to have a dialogue with the regime. Environmental activist and campaigner for the preservation of the Khimki forest Yevgeniya Chirikova believes that now that mass rallies seem to have been over, it is high time take action. She says that environmentalists now plan to voice support for those campaigners who were persecuted and also seek reforms to the national resource-based economy. "This can be achieved through strengthening the role of local governments. The time has come for ordinary citizens to become deputies and control the situation in their native towns." Political reform is what the opposition has been longing for and what has already begun. President Dmitry Medvedev came up with draft laws on liberalizing the country`s political system. Apart from this, the opposition leaders have already had several meetings with high-ranking officials. The opposition members, however, do not seem to be very inspired by the dialogue which has already started. Ilya Kharlamov Russia, Opinion & Analysis, opposition, Russian presidential election 2012, opposition rally, rallies For Fair Elections, Elections 2012. Commentary, rallies in Moscow, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 13####Obama took time to congratulate Putin on election victory########It is just one week after the reelection of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to become Russia’s president again.It is just one week after the reelection of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to become Russia’s president again. What has been the reaction of Muscovites and Russians to this third term that Vladimir Putin will serve as president and also what do many have to say about the fact that president Barack Obama waited 5 days before he called Mr. Putin to congratulate him on his presidential victory? Today we are joined on the line with our Voice of Russia Moscow Correspondent Dmitry Babich. Kim Brown Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian-US relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 15####EU levels mild criticism at Russian election########At a session in Strasbourg, the European Parliament has adopted a moderately critical resolution on the Russian presidential election. The document refers to ‘drawbacks and violations’ in the preparation for and the conduct of the 4th of March election.At a session in Strasbourg, the European Parliament has adopted a moderately critical resolution on the Russian presidential election. The document refers to ‘drawbacks and violations’ in the preparation for and the conduct of the 4th of March election. The authors of the report believe that Russian voters had ‘a limited choice of candidates’ because the Central Election Committee had refused to register the Yabloko party candidate Grigory Yavlinsky rejecting 25% of the signatures collected in his support, citing that a maximum of 5% of invalid signatures is allowed by the law. European MPs urged Russian authorities to investigate the violations which they believe took place during the election and were noticed by the observers. The Russian Central Election Committee called the European Parliament’s  resolution ‘groundless and biased’ on the basis that it portrays  the Russian election as unfair and unfree, while completely the opposite is true.  RIAN Russia, World, Russia-EU relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 15####European Parliament oversteps its powers - Russian MPs########The European Parliament is in no position to pass judgement on the Russian presidential election on the 4th of March, First Vice-Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee for International Affairs Andrey Klimov says.The European Parliament is in no position to pass judgement on the Russian presidential election on the 4th of March, First Vice-Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee for International Affairs Andrey Klimov says. “One gets an impression that at the period of the global economic and political crisis European MPs have nothing better to do than deal with Russia’s affairs,” Klimov said in his interview with Interfax, commenting on the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on Thursday, which states that ‘the voting in Russia was neither free nor just because it put one candidate into a better position’. Klimov reminded the journalists that Russia was not a EU member-state and contacts with the European Parliament were carried out through the Committee for the Russia-EU parliamentary cooperation.  IF Russia, World, Russia-EU relations, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 19####Presidential election in Russia fair - survey########60 percent of Russians think that the presisential election was fair. That came out in the result of the study of Russian Public Opinion Research Center.  Vladimir Putin won the election on March 4, he gained 63.6% of votes. On March 10-11 1.6 thousand people in 138 towns of 46 regions of Russia was interviewed. RIA 60 percent of Russians think that the presisential election was fair. That came out in the result of the study of Russian Public Opinion Research Center.  Vladimir Putin won the election on March 4, he gained 63.6% of votes. On March 10-11 1.6 thousand people in 138 towns of 46 regions of Russia was interviewed. RIA  Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 22####Protest moods wane after March election########Protest moods in Russia have fallen dramatically since the March presidential election.According to a poll held by the VTsIOM public opinion research center, 60% of the respondents heard about pro-Putin rallies and just 30% heard about opposition actions. Those who knew about the rallies showed indifference to protests staged by the opposition. Every second respondent dismissed talk of revising the election results as groundless. IF Russia, Russian presidential election 2012, opposition rally, rallies For Fair Elections, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 22####Russia rejects criticism of pre-election campaign########The Russian Central Elections Commission (CEC) has rejected the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) criticism of Russia’s pre-election campaign during which not all presidential hopefuls allegedly had equal access to the media.The Russian Central Elections Commission (CEC) has rejected the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) criticism of Russia’s pre-election campaign during which not all presidential hopefuls allegedly had equal access to the media. “This conclusion… is out of line with the facts,” the CEC said in a statement on Thursday, adding that this “could be regarded as an encroachment on media freedom in the Russian Federation.” RIAN Russia, World, Central Election Commission, Russian presidential election 2012, ODIHR, Society Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 March 22####Putin starts implementing pre-election promises########The winner of the recent presidential elections in Russia Vladimir Putin, who is currently Prime Minister, has held a meeting of the government. The meeting discussed ways to implement Mr. Putin’s pre-election promises, which he outlined in his several articles, published in the press before the elections.The winner of the recent presidential elections in Russia Vladimir Putin, who is currently Prime Minister, has held a meeting of the government. The meeting discussed ways to implement Mr. Putin’s pre-election promises, which he outlined in his several articles, published in the press before the elections. Mr. Putin believes that his plans outlined in these articles are quite realistic and based on people’s real needs. The meeting outlined the program of the country’s development up to 2020. Mr. Putin listened to ministers’ proposals on how to better implement these plans. The president elect said that in the nearest future, meetings on specific branches of economy will be held. Vladimir Putin’s pre-election articles dealt with issues of security, economy, politics and international relations. The thing that interested Mr. Putin in the ministers’ speeches probably most of all was where to get money to implement his projects – which demand rather big money. “The priority here is to observe macroeconomic parameters,” Vladimir Putin said. “We should use our money resources more economically. A passing calculation has shown that in many branches, the state resources are being used ineffectively.” Minister of Economic Development Elvira Nabiullina stated that the measures outlined in Mr. Putin’s articles would help Russia’s GDP to grow by another 0.9% within the next 3 years already. Among the measures suggested by Mr. Putin, there are an increase of effectiveness of investments and a system of monitoring of the state’s purchases. One of Mr. Putin’s articles, devoted to economy, suggested a tax maneuver, and this measure has already started to be implemented. “This tax maneuver is very important for our business people,” Ms. Nabiullina said. “We have already reported to you about our proposals,” she addressed Mr. Putin, “and we would like you to take your decisions before the beginning of the budget cycle. At present, we are discussing these issues with the Ministry of Finance, and I hope that we’ll agree about the concrete steps before the new budget is formed.” In his article devoted to issues of security, Mr. Putin outlined 28 tasks for the Ministry of Defense, which have to do with modernizing the already existing branches of the armed forces, perfecting the defense industry and creating absolutely new types of weapons. The last (but not least, of course) person who spoke at the meeting was the Finance Minister Anton Seluanov. He said that the budget money must go where it is spent with the best effect. After the meeting, Mr. Putin promised that official orders of the new government, concerning the implementation of the adopted decisions, will be ready by May. Polina Chernitsa Russia, Opinion & Analysis, Vladimir Putin, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian economy, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 April 03####Much ado over nothing########Election season is under way in the United States and dirt is being thrown around left and right as Americans love to do. Rarely are positive campaigns fought in American politics, as a rule the focus is on the most minuscule impropriety or immorality, which if cooked and served up right, can take down the strongest of candidates.Election season is under way in the United States and dirt is being thrown around left and right as Americans love to do. Rarely are positive campaigns fought in American politics, as a rule the focus is on the most minuscule impropriety or immorality, which if cooked and served up right, can take down the strongest of candidates. Sadly it is not even really important if there is truth in allegations, what is more important is how often (the lie) is repeated, for as with any non-truth, if it repeated enough it has a way of becoming truth to the public. This time the dirt being dug up, if not fabricated, against President Barack Obama, a president who has been attacked by the right wing and its lunatic fringe since day one for everything from his name to his birth certificate, involves not him directly but a contributor to his campaign. Lest it be forgotten the person in question, New York donor Abake Assongba has been accused, not found guilty or convicted. This should be an important fact in the land of so called, “…innocent until proven guilty….”, but it is just a side point as is normally the case. As anyone who knows me can state, without a doubt, I am not one to defend American politicians, even Obama, however as a champion of fairness I do find it necessary to underline one very important fact here; U.S. President Obama is the only presidential candidate who has released a list of what Americans call "bundlers," those who raise high-dollar campaign funds through friends and associates. This is something Republicans have long been want to do. This is not the first scandal involving Barack Obama and his contributors. Let’s not forget the case of long-time Clinton family financier, Hassan Nemazee, accused of fraudulently obtaining loans totaling $292 million from three banks to support his lifestyle and make political contributions. He was convicted to 12.5 years in prison in July 2010 on multiple counts of bank fraud and wire fraud. However this case does not involve Obama directly. What about the Republicans? Well if you do a Google search for the term “Republican Scandals 2012” you will get 68,200,000 results. I did not even know where to start. For the Republicans it is so bad that the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee launched the “House of Scandal” website at: http://dccc.org/index.php/corrupt, which has an interesting feature, Corrupt Republican of the Month, for those interested in dirt. In contrast to Barack Obama, Mitt Romney is no angel, a Google search for the term Romney Finance Scandals will provide you with 13,300,000 results, including an ABC News piece which turned out to be nothing, but provocatively began: “Although it is not apparent on his financial disclosure form, Mitt Romney has millions of dollars of his personal wealth in investment funds set up in the Cayman Islands, a notorious Caribbean tax haven. …” However as it turned out, like I said, it was nothing.       The real story here might be about the transparency that Barack Obama has attempted to maintain, as opposed to his opponents obfuscation, because really, with 1.3 million people having contributed to Obama’s campaign, according to Obama campaign spokesman Ben LaBolt, it would be really hard to vet every single one beforehand. On the other hand the real story here might also be about how American politics has become a simple money game, where the richest man (or woman) wins. Let’s not forget Barack Obama saying he would raise $1 billion dollars for his campaign. Just like the unprecedented transparency of the recent Presidential Elections in the Russian Federation, and transparency here meant transparent video monitored ballot boxes, among other things, no one in the American mass media really wants to comment on Obama’s transparency, it is all about ratings and dirt and maintaining prejudices and party lines. With the global economic crisis, the world on the brink of WWIII, the US’ ongoing military campaigns, all of Obama’s broken promises, global warming, unrest over most of the Middle East and much of Europe, famine, disease and poverty and judging from the fact that this is an ongoing US election cycle, I would say that once again, with regards to US President Barack Obama, this latest “scandal” is much ado over nothing. John Robles Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, US presidential elections 2012, John Robles, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 April 13####What lessons could be learned from elections in Russia?########Interview with Mr. Tiny Kox, the member of the Dutch Parliament, the upper chamber – the Senate, and the leader of the United Left political group, one of five political groups in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.It is very interesting to be here and to be updated by all kinds of interlocutors on the developments that took place during and since the State Duma elections and the presidential elections. We met with the Chair of the Central Elections Commission - Mr. Churov but we also met with the leaders and the leadership of the political factions in your State Duma, the Parliament and we asked them all to update us of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in order to prepare a good report on your last elections and the developments since. We are still working but we ask our interlocutors which lessons could be learned from both elections, and then we ask for the positive lessons to be learned, and then what negative lessons are to be learned. And of course different parties give different answers but altogether we get a clear impression that many things went wrong during the State Duma elections and also during the presidential elections. But on the other hand things developed rather quickly in the changing of your electoral codes. There’s now the possibility for parties to participate in a far more easy way in the upcoming elections. There will be far more easy regulations that you’ve got to the presidential elections. You probably will have an independent public broadcaster channel. And what is also important is that there is now a serious freedom of assembly, as we have seen since December 4 so many mass demonstrations, even the demonstrations on the Red Square which is not quite usual and it is allowed. So, there are the positive developments and we will put them together and will have possibly an objective report on the elections as such but also on what happened afterwards. We’ve wrote our final report already on the State Duma elections and it was clear that we had a lot of remarks that the elections did not went according to the standards that should be there. I think we have said enough about that. The presidential elections were better but nevertheless they were secured in favour of one candidate – Mr. Putin. There was not a level playing field that you’ve got of media access. And in both elections, that is one of our main comments, an impartial referee that is trusted by everybody is seriously lacking. And I think and I hope that the authorities and the Parliament of the Russian Federation will be able to take care that such an impartial referee will be on the playing field in the near future because any citizen who casts his or her vote should be absolutely sure that his or her vote is counted and that nothing happens with these votes. Then, you still have political competition and you still have a lot of debate and dispute but without an impartial referee nobody ever will be able to trust the result of an election. So, that is what in the foreseeable future should be something, at least that it would be our humble advice that that is changed. And if you then have more or less equal access to media, if you take care that administrative resources are not abused by one candidate or another and you have an impartial referee who watches that everything goes according to the rules and the protocols, then Russia will have free and fair elections in the near future, and that is all what we wish. Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, Russian presidential election 2012, Russian parliamentary elections, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 April 14####PACE states “clear winner” at elections in Russia########Speaking with reporters in Moscow the chief of the PACE electoral mission in Russia Tiny Kox said that the presidential elections in March had a “clear winner” and that was Vladimir Putin. The European politician said that further political reforms are needed to strengthen people’s confidence in the fairness of the elections.Speaking with reporters in Moscow the chief of the PACE electoral mission in Russia Tiny Kox said that the presidential elections in March had a “clear winner” and that was Vladimir Putin. The European politician said that further political reforms are needed to strengthen people’s confidence in the fairness of the elections.  The foreign guest said this extra mission to Russia was a non-standard procedure. PACE monitors made their first conclusions on the results of the elections as early as March 5. Then most of the experts admitted that the elections were fair. But PACE mission returned to Moscow once they learnt that a political reform was underway in Russia. The members of the mission met with the representatives of the Russian government and the opposition in order to take into account their estimates of the relevant legal reforms in Russia when making the final version of the summary report.  The mission will present their final conclusion on the elections in Russia at the session of the PACE Assembly in Strasbourg on April 23. Nevertheless, the European experts have already made some conclusions. PACE welcomes the initiatives of the Russian government on the improvement of the election procedure, Tini Kox said. Download audio file Moscow hopes that PACE monitors will be objective in their report. Tiny Kox has assured Moscow that there were no reasons for doubts because the methods and standards of elections’ monitoring are the same for every country. But there is a degree of untruth in it. The matter is that the monitoring rules were developed by the organization itself and are known only to its experts Russia repeatedly said that it is necessary to make the monitoring process transparent and comprehensive for all countries. In order to avoid double standards in the estimates of experts Moscow proposes to work out single international criteria of the monitoring election in Europe and the CIS countries, Vasily Likhachev, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on the EU-Russia parliamentary cooperation, members of the State Duma Committee on the CIS issues says. "Such rules must be based on the European standards which already exist. My experience of working as Russia’s envoy in the EU shows that Europeans, OSCE member states, the countries of the Post-Soviet area are ready to coordinate their positions on these issues. Recently, at the meeting in Moscow Russian lawmakers and our colleagues from the European parliament decided to start working on the international rules for monitoring of elections." Tini Kox told the “Voice of Russia” that PACE deputies were also ready to join the colleagues from other international structures to work single norms of election monitoring. It should be defined how long monitors’ mission can stay in the country and the number of monitors in the mission. These rules should oblige monitors to refrain from making preliminary statements before the results of the vote are announced, Vasily Likhachev said. It is obvious that such an approach will help to avoid subjectivism during the monitoring of the elections and the attitude towards foreign experts as biased censors. Lada Korotun Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, PACE, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 April 23####Putin’s triumph ‘unquestionable’ – PACE########In a report to the current session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg MondayIn a report to the current session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg Monday, the Assembly’s chief electoral monitor Tiny Kox described the outright victory by Vladimir Putin in Russia’s latest presidential elections as ‘absolutely unquestionable’. He also mentioned some irregularities in the presidential elections, but said they were significantly fewer and further between than in December’s elections to the Lower House of the Russian Parliament. He attributed the improvement to recent Russian reforms. TASS Russia, World, Vladimir Putin, PACE, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 April 23####PACE gives appraisal of Russian presidential election########The presidential election in Russia determined the evident winner, as a result of which a second round of voting was avoided. At the same time, the election campaign was not sufficiently fair and unbiased. These are the conclusions made by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) and voiced in Strasbourg on Monday.The presidential election in Russia determined the evident winner, as a result of which a second round of voting was avoided. At the same time, the election campaign was not sufficiently fair and unbiased. These are the conclusions made by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) and voiced in Strasbourg on Monday.  Russia’s representatives at the Assembly called the report reasonable but the Russian opposition is not satisfied with European MPs’ conclusions. The PACE mission at the Russian presidential election in March found some drawbacks as well. The head of  the mission Tiny Kox said that the election campaign “caused some arguments”. In the PACE viewpoint, some administrative resource was used and the candidates were not equally promoted in the media. At the same time, Kox pointed out that the situation with the presidential election had considerably improved in comparison with the Russian parliamentary elections held in December. The report of the PACE mission on the presidential election in Russia is well-balanced, the head of the Russian delegation at the Assembly Alexey Pushkov said. He also stressed that Russia is carrying out legal reforms and great progress is evident in this respect. He urged the MPs “to look ahead instead of the past”. The Russian opposition did not approve of the PACE report. It turned out that some of its members had hoped for a tougher assessment. Actually, the name of ‘the opposition’ unites political forces that sometimes have radically different views, a member of the presidium of the oppositional party A Just Russia Gennady Gudkov says. “Some of the opposition fights for liberal values. Another part of the opposition is aimed against Putin personally. Other oppositional forces stand on more reasonable positions. Still, even though the majority of the population voted for Putin it is strange to say that the election campaign was honest. We are not satisfied because the report only assessed the final part of the campaign when the votes were counted. We would rather the European Parliament had given an assessment of the whole campaign.” Announcer: The Assembly appreciated the political reform in Russia initiated by President Dmitry Medvedev. The MPs also liked the fact that at the time when their report was being prepared over 80 new Russian parties applied for registration and that an independent public TV channel is to be opened in Russia soon. Igor Siletsky Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, PACE, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 April 24####OSCE issues report on Russian presidential elections########The Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has released a report they compiled during the Russian presidential elections back in March.The Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe has released a report they compiled during the Russian presidential elections back in March. To discuss it this morning we are joined on the line by Igor Mintusov, Chairman of the Board and Director of the Strategic Communications Agency, and Neil Simon, Director of Communications and a spokesperson for the Organization for Security and Cooperation. Kim Brown Russia, World, Opinion & Analysis, OSCE, Russian presidential election 2012, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
####2012 July 06####GOP’s Romney raised over $100 mln for election race########The US Republican Party presidential candidate Mitt Romney raised over 100 million dollars in June for his election campaign in what proved he second-biggest election fund in the history of US presidential elections.The record-holder is the incumbent President Barack Obama, who raised 150 million dollars in September 2008. Obama and Romneymay spend 1 billion dollars each for their presidential campaigns. The monthly reports on the funds raised that are made public by the two hopefuls’ election headquarters every month do not include the millions of dollars that are being raised by independent committees set up in the two men’s support. BBC World, Russian presidential election 2012, Mitt Romney, Politics Share: Tweet Сomments 0
